Albedo: The albedo of an object is a measure of how strongly it reflects light from light sources such as the Sun. It is therefore a more specific form of the term reflectivity. Albedo is defined as the ratio of total-reflected to incident electromagnetic radiation. It is a unitless measure indicative of a surface's or body's diffuse reflectivity.
Anarchism: Anarchism is a political philosophy which considers the state undesirable, unnecessary and harmful, and instead promotes a stateless society, or anarchy. It seeks to diminish or even abolish authority in the conduct of human relations. Anarchists may widely disagree on what additional criteria are required in anarchism.
Achilles: In Greek mythology, Achilles was a Greek hero of the Trojan War, the central character and the greatest warrior of Homer's Iliad. Achilles also has the attributes of being the most handsome of the heroes assembled against Troy. Later legends (beginning with a poem by Statius in the first century AD) state that Achilles was invulnerable in all of his body except for his heel. Since he died due to an arrow shot into his heel, the "Achilles' heel" has come to mean a person's principal weakness.
Abraham Lincoln: Abraham Lincoln (February 12, 1809 - April 15, 1865) served as the 16th President of the United States from March 1861 until his assassination in April 1865. He successfully led his country through its greatest internal crisis, the American Civil War, preserving the Union and ending slavery.
Alabama: Alabama // is a state located in the southeastern region of the United States of America. It is bordered by Tennessee to the north, Georgia to the east, Florida and the Gulf of Mexico to the south, and Mississippi to the west. Alabama ranks 30th in total land area and ranks second in the size of its inland waterways. The state ranks 23rd in population with almost 4.6 million residents in 2006.
An American in Paris: An American in Paris is a symphonic composition by American composer George Gershwin, composed in 1928. Inspired by time Gershwin had spent in Paris, it is in the form of an extended tone poem evoking the sights and energy of the French capital in the 1920s. It is one of Gershwin's best-known compositions. Gershwin composed the piece on commission from the New York Philharmonic. He also did the orchestration. (He did not orchestrate his musicals.
Aristotle: Aristotle (384 BC - 322 BC) was a Greek philosopher, a student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great. His writings cover many subjects, including physics, metaphysics, poetry, theater, music, logic, rhetoric, politics, government, ethics, biology, and zoology. Together with Plato and Socrates (Plato's teacher), Aristotle is one of the most important founding figures in Western philosophy.
Academy Award for Best Art Direction: The Academy Awards are the oldest awards ceremony for achievements in motion pictures. The Academy Award for Best Art Direction recognizes achievement in art direction on a film. The films below are listed with their production year, so the Oscar 2000 for best art direction went to a film from 1999. In the lists below, the winner of the award for each year is shown first, followed by the other nominees.
Actrius: Actrius is a 1996 film directed by Ventura Pons. In the film, there are no male actors and the four leading actresses dubbed themselves in the Castilian version.
Academy Award: The Academy Award (frequently known as the Oscars) are accolades presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) to recognize excellence of professionals in the film industry, including directors, actors, and writers. The formal ceremony at which the awards are presented is one of the most prominent award ceremonies in the world.
Animalia book: Animalia is an illustrated children's book by Graeme Base. It was published in 1986. Animalia is an alliterative alphabet book and contains twenty-six illustrations, one for each letter of the alphabet. Each illustration features an animal from the animal kingdom (A is for alligator, B is for butterfly, etc. ) along with a short poem utilizing the letter of the page for many of the words.
International Atomic Time: International Atomic Time (TAI, from the French name Temps Atomique International) is a high-precision atomic coordinate time standard based on the notional passage of proper time on Earth's geoid. It is the principal realisation of Terrestrial Time, and the basis for Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) which is used for civil timekeeping all over the Earth's surface.
Altruism: Altruism is selfless concern for the welfare of others. It is a traditional virtue in many cultures, and a core aspect of various religious traditions such as Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Sikhism, and many others. Altruism is the opposite of selfishness. Altruism can be distinguished from feelings of loyalty and duty.
Alain Connes: Alain Connes (born 1 April 1947) is a French mathematician, currently Professor at the Colle de France, IH and Vanderbilt University.
Ayn Rand: Ayn Rand (born Alisa Zinov'yevna Rosenbaum; February 2 1905 - March 6, 1982), was a Russian-American novelist, philosopher, playwright, and screenwriter. She is known for her two best-selling novels and for developing a philosophical system she called Objectivism. Born and educated in Russia, Rand immigrated to the United States in 1926. She worked as a screenwriter in Hollywood and had a play produced on Broadway in 1935-1936.
Allan Dwan: Allan Dwan (April 3, 1885 - December 28, 1981) was a pioneering Canadian-born American motion picture director, producer and screenwriter.
List of Atlas Shrugged characters: This is a list of characters in Ayn Rand's novel, Atlas Shrugged.
Algeria: Algeria, officially the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, is a country located in North Africa. In terms of land area, it is the largest country on the Mediterranean Sea, the second largest on the African continent after Sudan, and the eleventh-largest country in the world.
Agricultural science: Agricultural science is a broad multidisciplinary field that encompasses the parts of exact, natural, economic and social sciences that are used in the practice and understanding of agriculture. (Veterinary science, but not animal science, is often excluded from the definition.)
Alchemy: Alchemy, originally derived from the Ancient Greek word khemia () meaning "art of transmuting metals", later arabicized as al-kimia (), is both a philosophy and an ancient practice focused on the attempt to change base metals into gold, investigating the preparation of the "elixir of longevity", and achieving ultimate wisdom, involving the improvement of the alchemist as well as the making of several substances described as possessing unusual properties.
Anthropology: Anthropology is the study of humanity. Anthropology has origins in the natural sciences, the humanities, and the social sciences. The term "", pronounced /ldi/, is from the Greek , anthrpos, "human", and -, ', "discourse" or "study", and was first used by Franis Pon when discussing his encounters with Tasmanian Aborigines.
Alien: Alien or Aliens may refer to: Alien (law), a non-citizen inhabitant of a country Extraterrestrial life Any introduced species
Astronomer: An astronomer is a scientist who studies celestial bodies such as planets, stars, and galaxies. Historically, astronomy was more concerned with the classification and description of phenomena in the sky, while astrophysics attempted to explain these phenomena and the differences between them using physical laws. Today, that distinction has mostly disappeared.
Amoeboid: Amoeboids are single-celled life-forms characterized by an irregular shape. "Amoeboid" and "amoeba" are often used interchangeably even by biologists, and especially refers to a creature moving by using pseudopods. Most references to "amoebas" or "amoebae" are to amoeboids in general rather than to the specific genus Amoeba. The genus Amoeba and amoeboids in general both derive their names from the ancient Greek word for change.
ASCII: The American Standard Code for Information Interchange is a character-encoding scheme based on the ordering of the English alphabet. ASCII codes represent text in computers, communications equipment, and other devices that use text. Most modern character-encoding schemes are based on ASCII, though they support many more characters than did ASCII. US-ASCII is the IANA preferred charset name for ASCII. Historically, ASCII developed from telegraphic codes.
Austin disambiguation: Austin may refer to:
Austria: Austria /tri/, officially the Republic of Austria, is a landlocked country of roughly 8.3 million people in Central Europe. It borders Germany and the Czech Republic to the north, Slovakia and Hungary to the east, Slovenia and Italy to the south, and Switzerland and Liechtenstein to the west. The territory of Austria covers 83,872 square kilometres (32,383 sq mi), and has a temperate and alpine climate.
Animation: This animation moves at 10 frames per second. Animation is the rapid display of a sequence of images of 2-D or 3-D artwork or model positions in order to create an illusion of movement. It is an optical illusion of motion due to the phenomenon of persistence of vision, and can be created and demonstrated in a number of ways. The most common method of presenting animation is as a motion picture or video program, although several other forms of presenting animation also exist.
Andre Agassi: Andre Kirk Agassi (born April 29, 1970) is an American former World No. 1 professional tennis player who won eight Grand Slam singles tournaments and an Olympic gold medal in singles. Generally considered by critics and fellow players to be one of the greatest tennis players of all time, he has been called the best service returner in the history of tennis.
Apollo: In Greek and Roman mythology, Apollo (in Greek, - Apln or - Apelln), is one of the most important and diverse of the Olympian deities. The ideal of the kouros (a beardless youth), Apollo has been variously recognized as a god of light and the sun; truth and prophecy; archery; medicin, healing and plague; music, poetry, and the arts; and more. Apollo is the son of Zeus and Leto, and has a twin sister, the chaste huntress Artemis.
Austro-Asiatic languages: The Austro-Asiatic languages are a large language family of Southeast Asia, and also scattered throughout India and Bangladesh. The name comes from the Latin word for "south" and the Greek name of Asia, hence "South Asia. " Among these languages, only Khmer, Vietnamese, and Mon have a long established recorded history, and only Vietnamese and Khmer have official status (in Vietnam and Cambodia, respectively). The rest of the languages are spoken by minority groups.
Afroasiatic languages: The Afroasiatic languages constitute a language family with about 375 living languages and more than 350 million speakers spread throughout North Africa, the Horn of Africa, and Southwest Asia, as well as parts of the Sahel, West Africa and East Africa. The most widely spoken Afroasiatic language is Arabic, with 230 million speakers (all the colloquial varieties).
Arithmetic mean: In mathematics and statistics, the arithmetic mean (or simply the mean) of a list of numbers is the sum of all of the list divided by the number of items in the list. If the list is a statistical population, then the mean of that population is called a population mean. If the list is a statistical sample, we call the resulting statistic a sample mean. The mean is the most commonly-used type of average and is often referred to simply as the average.
American Football Conference: The American Football Conference (AFC) is one of the two conferences of the National Football League (NFL). This conference and its counterpart, the National Football Conference (NFC), currently contain 16 teams each, making up the 32 teams of the NFL.
Andorra: Andorra /r/, officially the Principality of Andorra, also called the Principality of the Valleys of Andorra, is a small country in southwestern Europe, located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France. It is the sixth smallest nation in Europe having an area of 468 km (181 sq mi) and an estimated population of 83,888 in 2009. Its capital, Andorra la Vella, is the highest capital city in Europe, being at an elevation of 1023 metres.
Animal Farm: Animal Farm is a dystopian allegorical novella by George Orwell. Published in England on 17 August 1945, the book reflects events leading up to and during the Stalin era before World War II. Orwell, a democratic socialist and a member of the Independent Labour Party for many years, was a critic of Joseph Stalin and was suspicious of Moscow-directed Stalinism after his experiences with the NKVD during the Spanish Civil War.
Amphibian: Amphibians (class Amphibia), such as frogs, toads, salamanders, newts, and caecilians, are ectothermic (or cold-blooded) animals that either metamorphose from a juvenile water-breathing form, to an adult air-breathing form, or paedomorph and retain some juvenile characteristics. Mudpuppies and waterdogs are good examples of paedomorphic species. Though amphibians typically have four limbs, the caecilians are notable for being limbless.
Alaska: Alaska is the largest state of the United States by area; it is situated in the northwest extremity of the North American continent, with Canada to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north, and the Pacific Ocean to the west and south, with Russia further west across the Bering Strait. Approximately half of Alaska's 698,473 residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area. As of 2009, Alaska remains the least densely populated state of the U.S. The U.S.
Agriculture: Agriculture is the production of food and goods through farming. Agriculture was the key development that led to the rise of human civilization, with the husbandry of domesticated animals and plants creating food surpluses that enabled the development of more densely populated and stratified societies. The study of agriculture is known as agricultural science. Central to human society, agriculture is also observed in certain species of ant and termite.
Aldous Huxley: Aldous Leonard Huxley (26 July 1894 - 22 November 1963) was an English writer and one of the most prominent members of the famous Huxley family. He spent the later part of his life in the United States, living in Los Angeles from 1937 until his death in 1963. Best known for his novels including Brave New World and wide-ranging output of essays, Huxley also edited the magazine Oxford Poetry, and published short stories, poetry, travel writing, and film stories and scripts.
Ada: Ada or ADA may refer to:
Aberdeen disambiguation: Aberdeen is a city in Scotland, United Kingdom. Aberdeen may also refer to:
Analysis of variance: In statistics, analysis of variance (ANOVA) is a collection of statistical models, and their associated procedures, in which the observed variance is partitioned into components due to different explanatory variables. In its simplest form ANOVA gives a statistical test of whether the means of several groups are all equal, and therefore generalizes Student's two-sample t-test to more than two groups. ANOVAs are helpful because they possess a certain advantage over a two-sample t-test.
Algae: Algae are a large and diverse group of simple, typically autotrophic organisms, ranging from unicellular to multicellular forms. The largest and most complex marine forms are called seaweeds. They are photosynthetic, like plants, and "simple" because they lack the many distinct organs found in land plants.
Appeal: In law, an appeal is a process for requesting a formal change to an official decision. The specific procedures for appealing, including even whether there is a right of appeal from a particular type of decision, can vary greatly from country to country. Even within a jurisdiction, the nature of an appeal can vary greatly depending on the type of case. An appellate court is a court that hears cases on appeal from another court.
Answer: Generally, an answer is a reply to a question or is a solution, a retaliation, or a response that is relevant to the said question. In law, an answer was originally a solemn assertion in opposition to some one or something, and thus generally any counter-statement or defense, a reply to a question or objection, or a correct solution of a problem.
Alkane: Alkanes, also known as paraffins, are chemical compounds that consist only of the elements carbon (C) and hydrogen (H), wherein these atoms are linked together exclusively by single bonds (i.e. , they are saturated compounds) without any cyclic structure (i.e. loops). Alkanes belong to a homologous series of organic compounds in which the members differ by a constant relative molecular mass of 14.
Appellate court: An appellate court is any court of law that is empowered to hear an appeal of a trial court or other lower tribunal. In most jurisdictions, the court system is divided into at least three levels: the trial court, which initially hears cases and reviews evidence and testimony to determine the facts of the case; at least one intermediate appellate court; and a supreme court (or court of last resort) which primarily reviews the decisions of the intermediate courts.
America the Beautiful: "America the Beautiful" is an American patriotic song. The lyrics were written by Katharine Lee Bates and the music composed by church organist and choirmaster Samuel A. Ward. Bates originally wrote the words as a poem, Pikes Peak, first published in the July 4th edition of the church periodical The Congregationalist in 1895. The poem was titled America for publication. Ward had originally written the music, Materna, for the 1600s hymn O Mother dear, Jerusalem in 1882.
Arraignment: Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal complaint in the presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges against him or her. In response to arraignment, the accused is expected to enter a plea. Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include "guilty", "not guilty", and the peremptory pleas (or pleas in bar) setting out reasons why a trial cannot proceed. Pleas of "nolo contendere" (no contest) and the "Alford plea" are allowed in some circumstances.
Assistive technology: Assistive technology (AT) is a generic term that includes assistive, adaptive, and rehabilitative devices for people with disabilities and includes the process used in selecting, locating, and using them. The Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities Act of 1988 (US Public Law 100-407) states that it is "technology designed to be utilized in an assistive technology device or assistive technology service.
Abacus: The abacus, also called a counting frame, is a calculating tool used primarily in parts of Asia for performing arithmetic processes. Today, abacuses are often constructed as a bamboo frame with beads sliding on wires, but originally they were beans or stones moved in grooves in sand or on tablets of wood, stone, or metal.
Asphalt: Asphalt is a sticky, black and highly viscous liquid or semi-solid that is present in most crude petroleums and in some natural deposits sometimes termed asphaltum. It is most commonly modelled as a colloid, with asphaltenes as the dispersed phase and maltenes as the continuous phase (though there is some disagreement amongst chemists regarding its structure).
Acid: An acid (... from the Latin acidus meaning sour) is traditionally considered any chemical compound that, when dissolved in water, gives a solution with a hydrogen ion activity greater than in pure water, i.e. a pH less than 7.0 in its standard state. That approximates the modern definition of Johannes Nicolaus Brsted and Martin Lowry, who independently defined an acid as a compound which donates a hydrogen ion (H) to another compound. Common examples include acetic acid and sulfuric acid.
American National Standards Institute: The American National Standards Institute or ANSI is a private non-profit organization that oversees the development of voluntary consensus standards for products, services, processes, systems, and personnel in the United States. The organization also coordinates U.S. standards with international standards so that American products can be used worldwide. For example, standards make sure that people who own cameras can find the film they need for that camera anywhere around the globe.
Apollo 11: The Apollo 11 mission landed the first humans on the Moon. Launched on July 16, 1969, the third lunar mission of NASA's Apollo Program was crewed by Commander Neil Alden Armstrong, Command Module Pilot Michael Collins, and Lunar Module Pilot Edwin Eugene 'Buzz' Aldrin, Jr. On July 20, Armstrong and Aldrin became the first humans to walk on the Moon, while Collins orbited in the Command Module. The mission fulfilled President John F.
Apollo 8: Apollo 8 was the first human spaceflight mission to escape from the gravitational field of planet Earth; the first to be captured by and escape from the gravitational field of another celestial body; and the first crewed voyage to return to planet Earth from another celestial body - Earth's Moon.
Astronaut: An astronaut or cosmonaut is a person trained by a human spaceflight program to command, pilot, or serve as a crew member of a spacecraft. While generally reserved for professional space travelers, the term is sometimes applied to anyone who travels into space, including scientists, politicians, journalists, and tourists. Until 2003, astronauts were sponsored and trained exclusively by governments, either by the military, or by civilian space agencies.
A Modest Proposal: A Modest Proposal: For Preventing the Children of Poor People in Ireland from Being a Burden to Their Parents or Country, and for Making Them Beneficial to the Publick, commonly referred to as A Modest Proposal, is a Juvenalian satirical essay written and published anonymously by Jonathan Swift in 1729. Swift appears to suggest in his essay that the impoverished Irish might ease their economic troubles by selling children as food for rich gentlemen and ladies.
Alkali metal: The alkali metals are a series of chemical elements forming Group 1 of the periodic table: lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K), rubidium (Rb), caesium (Cs), and francium (Fr). (Hydrogen, although nominally also a member of Group 1, very rarely exhibits behavior comparable to the alkali metals). The alkali metals provide one of the best examples of group trends in properties in the periodic table, with well characterized homologous behavior down the group.
Argument form: In logic, the argument form or test form of an argument results from replacing the different words, or sentences, that make up the argument with letters, along the lines of algebra; the letters represent logical variables. This is of importance since the validity of an argument is determined solely by its form. The sentence forms which classify argument forms of common important arguments are studied in logic.
Alphabet: An alphabet is a standardized set of letters - basic written symbols or graphemes - each of which roughly represents a phoneme in a spoken language, either as it exists now or as it was in the past. There are other systems, such as logographies, in which each character represents a word, morpheme, or semantic unit, and syllabaries, in which each character represents a syllable.
Anatomy: Anatomy is a branch of biology and medicine that is the consideration of the structure of living things. It is a general term that includes human anatomy, animal anatomy (zootomy) and plant anatomy (phytotomy). In some of its facets anatomy is closely related to embryology, comparative anatomy and comparative embryology, through common roots in evolution. Anatomy is subdivided into gross anatomy (or macroscopic anatomy) and microscopic anatomy.
Atomic number: In chemistry and physics, the atomic number (also known as the proton number) is the number of protons found in the nucleus of an atom and therefore identical to the charge number of the nucleus. It is conventionally represented by the symbol Z. The atomic number uniquely identifies a chemical element. In an atom of neutral charge, the atomic number is also equal to the number of electrons.
Affirming the consequent: Affirming the consequent, sometimes called converse error, is a formal fallacy, committed by reasoning in the form: If P, then Q. Q. Therefore, P. An argument of this form is invalid, i.e. , the conclusion can be false even when statements 1 and 2 are true. Since P was never asserted as the only sufficient condition for Q, other factors could account for Q (while P was false).
Andrei Tarkovsky: Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky (April 4, 1932-December 29, 1986) was a Soviet and Russian filmmaker, writer, film editor, film theorist and opera director. Tarkovsky's films include Andrei Rublev, Solaris, The Mirror, and Stalker. He directed the first five of his seven feature films in the Soviet Union; his last two films were produced in Italy and Sweden.
Animal disambiguation: An animal is a taxonomic member of the Kingdom . Animal or Animals may also refer to:
Ambiguity: Ambiguity is the property of being ambiguous, where a word, term, notation, sign, symbol, phrase, sentence, or any other form used for communication, is called ambiguous if it can be interpreted in more than one way. Ambiguity is different from vagueness, which arises when the boundaries of meaning are indistinct. Ambiguity is context-dependent: the same linguistic item (be it a word, phrase, or sentence) may be ambiguous in one context and unambiguous in another context.
Aardvark: The Aardvark (Orycteropus afer) (from Africa) is a medium-sized, burrowing, nocturnal mammal native to Africa. It is the only living species of all Tubulidentata, but there are known other prehistoric species and genera of Tubulidentata. It is sometimes called "antbear", "anteater", "Cape anteater", "earth hog" or "earth pig". The word "aardvark" is famous for being one of the first entries to appear in many encyclopaedias and even abridged dictionaries.
Aardwolf: The aardwolf (Proteles cristata) is a small, insectivorous hyena-like mammal, native to Eastern and Southern Africa. The name means "earth wolf" in Afrikaans/Dutch. It is also called "maanhaar-jackal" and "protelid". Unlike other hyenas, the diet of the aardwolf almost completely consists of termites, other insect larvae and carrion. The aardwolf is the only surviving species of the subfamily Protelinae.
Adobe: Adobe is a natural building material made from sand, clay, horse manure and water, with some kind of fibrous or organic material, which is shaped into bricks using frames and dried in the sun. It is similar to cob and mudbrick. Adobe structures are extremely durable and account for some of the oldest extant buildings on the planet.
A: The letter A is the first letter in the Latin alphabet, a vowel. Its name in English is spelled a; the plural is aes, although this is rare.
Adventure: An adventure is an activity that is perceived to involve risky, dangerous or exciting experiences. The term is often used to refer to activities with some potential for physical danger, such as skydiving, mountain climbing, and extreme sports. However, the term also broadly refers to any enterprise that is potentially fraught with physical, financial or psychological risk, such as a business venture, a love affair, or other major life undertakings.
Autism: Autism is a disorder of neural development characterized by impaired social interaction and communication, and by restricted and repetitive behavior. These signs all begin before a child is three years old. Autism affects information processing in the brain by altering how nerve cells and their synapses connect and organize; how this occurs is not well understood.
Aruba: Aruba is a 33-kilometre (21 mi)-long island of the Lesser Antilles in the southern Caribbean Sea, located a mere 27 kilometres (17 mi) north of the coast of Venezuela. Together with Bonaire and Curao, it forms a group referred to as the ABC islands of the Leeward Antilles, the southern island chain of the Lesser Antilles.
Asia: Asia is the world's largest and most populous continent, located primarily in the eastern and northern hemispheres. It covers 8.6% of the Earth's total surface area (or 29.9% of its land area) and with approximately 4 billion people, it hosts 60% of the world's current human population.
Atlantic Ocean: The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the world's oceanic divisions. With a total area of about 106.4 million square kilometres (41.1 million square miles), it covers approximately twenty percent of the Earth's surface and about twenty-six percent of its water surface area. The first part of its name refers to the Atlas of Greek mythology, making the Atlantic the "Sea of Atlas".
Articles of Confederation: The Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union, customarily referred to as the Articles of Confederation, was the first constitution of the United States of America and legally established the union of the states. The Second Continental Congress appointed a committee to draft the Articles in June 1776 and sent the draft to the states for ratification in November 1777.
Demographics of Angola: The demographics of Angola consist of three main ethnic groups, each speaking a Bantu language: Ovimbundu 37%, Mbundu 25%, and Bakongo 13%. Other groups include Chokwe (or Lunda), Ganguela, Nhaneca-Humbe, Ambo, Herero, and Xindunga. In addition, mixed race (European and African) people amount to about 2%, with a small (1%) population of whites, mainly ethnically Portuguese.
Economy of Angola: The Economy of Angola is one of the fastest-growing economies in the world, but is still recovering from the Angolan Civil War that plagued Angola from independence in 1975 until 2002. Despite extensive oil and gas resources, diamonds, hydroelectric potential, and rich agricultural land, Angola remains poor, and a third of the population relies on subsistence agriculture.
Arthur Schopenhauer: Arthur Schopenhauer (22 February 1788 - 21 September 1860) was a German philosopher known for his atheistic pessimism and philosophical clarity. At age 25, he published his doctoral dissertation, On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason, which examined the fundamental question of whether reason alone can unlock answers about the world.
Politics of Angola: Politics of Angola takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Angola is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. Angola changed from a one-party Marxist-Leninist system ruled by the MPLA to a formal multiparty democracy following the 1992 elections.
Transport in Angola: Transport in Angola comprises:
Angolan Armed Forces: The Angolan Armed Forces (FAA) is headed by a Chief of Staff who reports to the Minister of Defense. There are three components, the Army, Navy (Marinha de Guerra, MdG), and National Air Force of Angola (FAPA). Total manpower is about 65,000. The army is by far the largest of the services with about 55,000+ men and women. The Navy numbers about 1,000 and operates several small patrol craft and barges.
Angola: Angola, officially the Republic of Angola, is a country in south-central Africa bordered by Namibia on the south, Democratic Republic of the Congo on the north, and Zambia on the east; its west coast is on the Atlantic Ocean. The exclave province of Cabinda has a border with the Republic of the Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Angola was a Portuguese overseas territory from the 16th century to 1975.
Android: An android is a robot or synthetic organism designed to look and act like a human. Until recently, androids have largely remained within the domain of science fiction, frequently seen in film and television. However, Honda and several other corporations and private enterprises have developed impressive androids although there is a long way to go to make them fully human like.
Foreign relations of Angola: The foreign relations of Angola are based on Angola's strong support of U.S. foreign policy as the Angolan economy is dependent on U.S. foreign aid. From 1975 to 1989, Angola was aligned with the Eastern bloc, in particular the Soviet Union, Libya, and Cuba.
Albert Sidney Johnston: Albert Sidney Johnston (February 2, 1803 - April 6, 1862) was a career United States Army officer, a Texas Army general, and a Confederate States general. He saw extensive combat during his military career, fighting actions in the Texas War of Independence, the Mexican-American War, the Utah War, as well as the American Civil War. Considered by Confederate President Jefferson Davis to be the finest general officer in the Confederacy before the emergence of Robert E.
List of anthropologists: The following list is obsolete. Please make no further additions to the list. For scientists and scholars of anthropology, refer to the ' .
Actinopterygii: The Actinopterygii constitute the class or sub-class of the ray-finned fishes. The ray-finned fishes are so called because they possess lepidotrichia or "fin rays", their fins being webs of skin supported by bony or horny spines ("rays"), as opposed to the fleshy, lobed fins that characterize the class Sarcopterygii which also, however, possess lepidotrichia.
Arctic Circle: The Arctic Circle is one of the five major circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth. For Epoch 2010, it is the parallel of latitude that runs 66 33 44 (or 66.56222) north of the Equator. The region north of this circle is known as the Arctic, and the zone just to the south is called the Northern Temperate Zone. The equivalent polar circle in the Southern Hemisphere is called the Antarctic Circle.
Afghanistan: The Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is a landlocked country in South-Central Asia. It is variously described as being located within Central Asia, South Asia, Western Asia, or the Middle East. It is bordered by Iran in the west, Pakistan in the south and east, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan in the north, and China in the far northeast. Afghanistan has a long history, and has been an ancient focal point of the Silk Road and migration.
Albert Einstein: Albert Einstein (14 March 1879-18 April 1955) was a German-born Swiss-American theoretical physicist, philosopher and author who is widely regarded as one of the most influential and best known scientists and intellectuals of all time. He is often regarded as the father of modern physics. He received the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics "for his services to Theoretical Physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect.
Allah: Allah is the standard Arabic word for God. While the term is best known in the West for its use by Muslims as a reference to God, it is used by Arabic-speakers of all Abrahamic faiths, including Christians and Jews, in reference to "God". The term was also used by pagan Meccans as a reference to the creator-god, possibly the supreme deity in pre-Islamic Arabia. The concepts associated with the term Allah (as a deity) differ among the traditions.
Amateur astronomy: Amateur astronomy, also called backyard astronomy, is a hobby whose participants enjoy watching the night sky (and the day sky too, for sunspots, eclipses, etc. ), and the plethora of objects found in it, mainly with portable telescopes and binoculars. Even though scientific research is not their main goal, many amateur astronomers make a contribution to astronomy by monitoring variable stars, tracking asteroids and discovering transient objects, such as comets.
Albania: Albania /eni/ al--nee-, officially the Republic of Albania, is a country in South Eastern Europe. It is bordered by Montenegro to the northwest, Kosovo to the northeast, the Republic of Macedonia to the east and Greece to the south and southeast. It has a coast on the Adriatic Sea to the west, and on the Ionian Sea to the southwest. It is less than 72 km (45 mi) from Italy, across the Strait of Otranto which links the Adriatic Sea to the Ionian Sea.
Alberta: Alberta /rt/ is the most populous and fastest growing of Canada's three prairie provinces. It is approximately the same size as France or Texas and had a population of 3.7 million in 2009. It became a province on September 1, 1905, on the same day as Saskatchewan. It is economically important primarily because of its vast oil reserves, and its large tertiary and quaternary economic sector.
Azerbaijan: Azerbaijan, formally the Republic of Azerbaijan, is a country in the Caucasus region of Eurasia. Located at the crossroads of Eastern Europe and Western Asia, it is bounded by the Caspian Sea to the east, Russia to the north, Georgia to the northwest, Armenia to the west, and Iran to the south. The exclave of Nakhichevan is bounded by Armenia to the north and east, Iran to the south and west, while having a short borderline with Turkey to the northwest.
Aikido: Aikido is a Japanese martial art developed by Morihei Ueshiba as a synthesis of his martial studies, philosophy, and religious beliefs. Aikido is often translated as "the Way of unifying (with) life energy" or as "the Way of harmonious spirit. " Ueshiba's goal was to create an art that practitioners could use to defend themselves while also protecting their attacker from injury.
Abortion: Abortion is the termination of a pregnancy by the removal or expulsion from the uterus of a fetus or embryo, resulting in or caused by its death. An abortion can occur spontaneously due to complications during pregnancy or can be induced, in humans and other species. In the context of human pregnancies, an abortion induced to preserve the health of the gravida (pregnant female) is termed a therapeutic abortion, while an abortion induced for any other reason is termed an elective abortion.
Agnostida: Agnostida is an order of trilobite which first developed near the end of the Early Cambrian period and thrived during the Middle Cambrian. They are present in the lower Cambrian fossil record along with trilobites from the Redlichiida, Corynexochida, and Ptychopariida orders. The last agnostids went extinct in the Late Ordovician. The Agnostida are divided into two suborders Agnostina and Eodiscina that are then divided into a number of families.
Art: Art is the process or product of deliberately arranging elements in a way to affect the senses or emotions. It encompasses a diverse range of human activities, creations, and modes of expression, including music, literature, film, sculpture, and paintings. The meaning of art is explored in a branch of philosophy known as aesthetics. The definition and evaluation of art has become especially problematic since the early 20th century.
Abstract law: In law, an abstract is a brief statement that contains the most important points of a long legal document or of several related legal papers.
Ampere: The ampere is the SI unit of electric current and is one of the seven SI base units. It is named after Andr-Marie Ampe (1775-1836), French mathematician and physicist, considered the father of electrodynamics. In practice, its name is often shortened to amp. In practical terms, the ampere is a measure of the amount of electric charge passing a point per unit time. Around 6.242 10 electrons passing a given point each second constitutes one ampere.
Algorithm: In mathematics, computer science, and related subjects, an algorithm is an effective method for solving a problem using a finite sequence of instructions. Algorithms are used for calculation, data processing, and many other fields. Each algorithm is a list of well-defined instructions for completing a task. Starting from an initial state, the instructions describe a computation that proceeds through a well-defined series of successive states, eventually terminating in a final ending state.
Anthophyta: The anthophytes were thought to be a clade comprising plants bearing flower-like structures. The group contained the angiosperms - the extant flowering plants - as well as the Gnetales and the extinct Bennettitales. Detailed morphological and molecular studies have shown that the group is not actually monophyletic. This makes it easier to reconcile molecular clock data that suggests that the angiosperms diverged from the gymnosperms around 300 million years ago.
Annual plant: An annual plant is a plant that usually germinates, flowers, and dies in a year or season. True annuals will only live longer than a year if they are prevented from setting seed. Some seedless plants can also be considered annuals even though they do not grow a flower. In gardening, annual often refers to a plant grown outdoors in the spring and summer and surviving just for one growing season. Many food plants are, or are grown as, annuals, including most domesticated grains.
Atlas disambiguation: An atlas is a collection of maps. Atlas may also refer to:
American Revolutionary War: The American Revolutionary War (1775-1783) or American War of Independence began as a war between the Kingdom of Great Britain and thirteen former British colonies in North America, and concluded in a global war between several European great powers. The war was the culmination of the political American Revolution, whereby many of the colonists rejected the legitimacy of the Parliament of Great Britain to govern them without representation, claiming that this violated the Rights of Englishmen.
Mouthwash: Mouthwash or mouth rinse is a product used to enhance oral hygiene. Antiseptic and anti-plaque mouth rinse claims to kill the bacterial plaque causing caries, gingivitis, and bad breath. Anti-cavity mouth rinse uses fluoride to protect against tooth decay. It is, however, generally agreed that the use of mouthwash does not eliminate the need for both brushing and flossing.
Alfred Korzybski: Alfred Habdank Skarbek Korzybski (July 3, 1879 - March 1, 1950) was a Polish-American philosopher and scientist. He is most remembered for developing the theory of general semantics.
Asteroids video game: Asteroids is a video arcade game released in 1979 by Atari Inc. It was one of the most popular and influential games of the Golden Age of Arcade Games. Asteroids uses vector graphics and a two-dimensional view that wraps around in both screen axes. The player controls a spaceship in an asteroid field which is periodically traversed by flying saucers. The object of the game is to shoot and destroy asteroids and saucers while not colliding with either, or being hit by the saucers' counter-fire.
Asparagales: Asparagales is an order of flowering plants. The order has always included the family Asparagaceae, but other families included in the order have varied markedly between different classifications. It is supposed that this group of plants evolved between the late and early Cretaceous, but given the difficult classification of the families involved, this is not entirely certain.
Alexander the Great: Alexander III of Macedon (356-323 BC), popularly known as Alexander the Great, was a Greek king of Macedon. He is the most celebrated member of the Argead Dynasty and created one of the largest empires in ancient history. Born in Pella in 356 BC, Alexander received a classical Greek education under the tutorship of famed philosopher Aristotle, succeeded his father Philip II of Macedon to the throne in 336 BC after the King was assassinated, and died thirteen years later at the age of 32.
Alismatales: Alismatales is an order of flowering plants. The order will of necessity contain the family Alismataceae.
Apiales: The Apiales are an order of flowering plants. The families given at right are typical of newer classifications, though there is some slight variation, and in particular the Torriceliaceae may be divided. These families are placed within the asterid group of eudicots as circumscribed by the APG II system. Within the asterids, Apiales belongs to an unranked group called the campanulids. Under this definition well-known members include carrots, celery, parsley, and ivy.
Allocution: Generally, to allocute in law means "to speak out formally. " In the field of apologetics, allocution is generally done in defense of a belief. In politics, one may allocute before a legislative body in an effort to influence their position on an issue. In law, it is generally meant to state specifically and in detail what one did and for what reason, often in relation to commission of a crime.
Asteroid: Asteroids, sometimes called minor planets or planetoids, are small Solar System bodies in orbit around the Sun, especially in the inner Solar System; they are smaller than planets but larger than meteoroids. The term "asteroid" has historically been applied primarily to minor planets of the inner Solar System, as the outer Solar System was poorly known when it came into common usage.
Asterales: Asterales is an order of dicotyledonous flowering plants that includes the composite family and its related families. The order is a cosmopolite, and includes mostly herbaceous species, although a small number of trees (such as some members of the genus Lobelia) and shrubs are also present. The Asterales can be characterized on the morphological and molecular level. Synapomorphies include the oligosaccharide inulin, a nutrient storage molecule, and unique stamen morphology.
Aries constellation: Aries is one of the constellations of the zodiac, located between Pisces to the west and Taurus to the east. Its name is Latin for ram, and its symbol is (Unicode ), representing a ram's horns. Aries was one of the 48 constellations described by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and remains one of the 88 modern constellations today.
Aquarius constellation: Aquarius is a constellation of the zodiac, situated between Capricornus and Pisces. Its name is Latin for "water-bearer" or "cup-bearer", and its symbol is (Unicode ), a representation of water. Aquarius is one of the oldest of the recognized constellations along the zodiac (the sun's apparent path). It is found in a region often called the Sea due to its profusion of constellations with watery associations such as Cetus the whale, Pisces the fish and Eridanus the river.
Asterism: Asterism may refer to: Asterism (astronomy), a pattern of stars Asterism (gemmology), an optical phenomenon in gemstones Asterism (typography), a moderately rare typographical symbol denoting a break in passages
Anime: Anime in English usually refers to a style of animation originating in Japan, heavily influenced by the manga (Japanese comics) style and typically featuring characters with large eyes, big hair and elongated limbs, exaggerated facial expressions, brush-stroked outlines, limited motion and other distinctive features. The term may also be used for other animation connected to Japan or to anime proper, irrespective of style.
Alfred Hitchcock: Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock, KBE (13 August 1899 - 29 April 1980) was an English filmmaker and producer who pioneered many techniques in the suspense and psychological thriller genres. After a successful career in his native United Kingdom in both silent films and early talkies, Hitchcock moved to Hollywood. In 1956 he became an American citizen while retaining his British citizenship. Hitchcock directed more than fifty feature films in a career spanning six decades.
Affidavit: This law-related article does not cite its references or sources. You can help Wikipedia by including appropriate citations, which can be found through legal research. An affidavit is a formal sworn statement of fact, signed by the author, who is called the affiant or deponent, and witnessed as to the authenticity of the affiant's signature by a taker of oaths, such as a notary public or commissioner of oaths. The name is Medieval Latin for he has declared upon oath.
Arabic language: Arabic ( al-arabyah, or arabi) is a Central Semitic language, thus related to and classified alongside other Semitic languages such as Hebrew and the Neo-Aramaic languages. In terms of speakers, Arabic is the largest member of the Semitic language family. It is spoken by more than 280 million people as a first language, most of whom live in the Middle East and North Africa, and by 250 million more as a second language.
Ankara: Ankara is the capital of Turkey and the country's second largest city after Istanbul. The city has a mean elevation of 850 metres (2,790 ft), and as of 2007 the city had a population of 4,751,360, which includes eight districts under the city's administration. Ankara also serves as the capital of Ankara Province. As with many ancient cities, Ankara has gone by several names over the ages: The Hittites gave it the name Ankuwash before 1200 BC. The Galatians and Romans called it Ancyra.
Austrian German: Austrian German, or Austrian Standard German, is the national standard variety of the German language spoken in Austria and in South Tyrol. The standardized form of Austrian German for official texts and schools is defined by the Austrian dictionary (terreichisches Wterbuch), published under the authority of the ministry of education, art and culture.
Altaic languages: Altaic is a disputed language family that is generally held by its proponents to include the Turkic, Mongolic, Tungusic, and Japonic language families and the Korean language isolate . These languages are spoken in a wide arc stretching from northeast Asia through Central Asia to Anatolia and eastern Europe (Turks, Kalmyks). The group is named after the Altai Mountains, a mountain range in Central Asia. These language families share numerous characteristics.
A Clockwork Orange: A Clockwork Orange is a dystopian novel by Anthony Burgess. The title is taken from an old Cockney expression, "as queer as a clockwork orange", and alludes to the prevention of the main character's exercise of his free will through the use of a classical conditioning technique.
Axiom of choice: In mathematics, the axiom of choice, or AC, is an axiom of set theory. Informally put, the axiom of choice says that given any collection of bins, each containing at least one object, it is possible to make a selection of exactly one object from each bin, even if there are infinitely many bins and there is no "rule" for which object to pick from each. The axiom of choice is not required if the number of bins is finite or if such a selection "rule" is available.
Attila the Hun: Attila, widely known as Attila the Hun, was the Emperor of the Huns from 434 until his death in 453. He was leader of the Hunnic Empire which stretched from Germany to the Ural River and from the River Danube to the Baltic Sea. During his rule, he was one of the most fearsome of the Western and Eastern Roman Empires' enemies: he invaded the Balkans twice and marched through Gaul (modern France) as far as Orlns before being defeated at the Battle of Chons.
Aegean Sea: The Aegean Sea is an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean Sea located between the southern Balkan and Anatolian peninsulas, i.e. , between the mainlands of Greece and Turkey respectively. In the north, it is connected to the Marmara Sea and Black Sea by the Dardanelles and Bosporus. The Aegean Islands are within the sea and some bound it on its southern periphery, including Crete and Rhodes.
Museum of Work: The Museum of Work, or Arbetets museum, is a museum located in Norrking, Sweden. The museum can be found in the 19th century building The Iron in the Motala str river in central Norrking. See also: List of museums in Sweden, Culture of Sweden
Audi: Audi AG is a German manufacturer of automobiles marketed under the Audi brand, . The company is headquartered in Ingolstadt, Germany and has been a wholly-owned (99.55%) subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group (Volkswagen AG) since 1964. Volkswagen Group relaunched the Audi brand with the 1965 introduction of the Audi 60 range. Shortly thereafter the name was acquired as part of Volkswagen's purchase of the Auto Union assets from former owner, Daimler-Benz.
Aircraft: An aircraft is a vehicle which is able to fly by being supported by the air, or in general, the atmosphere of a planet. An aircraft counters the force of gravity by using either static lift or by using the dynamic lift of an airfoil (as with vehicles that plane the air with wings in a straight manner, such as airplanes and gliders, or vehicles that generate lift with wings in a rotary manner, such as helicopters or gyrocopters).
Alexander Graham Bell: Alexander Graham Bell (March 3, 1847 - August 2, 1922) was an eminent scientist, inventor, engineer and innovator who is credited with inventing the first practical telephone. Bell's father, grandfather, and brother had all been associated with work on elocution and speech, and both his mother and wife were deaf, profoundly influencing Bell's life's work.
Alfred Nobel: Alfred Bernhard Nobel was a Swedish chemist, engineer, innovator, armaments manufacturer and the inventor of dynamite. He owned Bofors, a major armaments manufacturer, which he had redirected from its previous role as an iron and steel mill. Nobel held 355 different patents, dynamite being the most famous. In his last will, he used his enormous fortune to institute the Nobel Prizes. The synthetic element nobelium was named after him.
Amsterdam: Amsterdam is the capital and largest city of the Netherlands, located in the province of North Holland in the west of the country. The city, which had a population (including suburbs) of 1.36 million on 1 January 2008, comprises the northern part of the Randstad, the sixth-largest metropolitan area in Europe, with a population of around 6.7 million. Its name is derived from Amstellerdam, indicative of the city's origin: a dam in the river Amstel.
Apple Inc.: Apple Inc. is an American multinational corporation that designs and manufactures consumer electronics, computer software, and commercial servers. The company's best-known hardware products include Macintosh computers, the iPod, the iPhone and the iPad.
Anatolia: Anatolia is a geographic and historical term denoting the westernmost protrusion of Asia, comprising about two-thirds of the modern Republic of Turkey. The region is bounded by the Black Sea to the north, Georgia to the northeast, Armenia and the Euphrates river to the east, the Mesopotamian plain and Orontes river to the southeast, the Mediterranean Sea to the south, and the Aegean Sea to the west.
Andy Warhol: Andrew Warhola (August 6, 1928 - February 22, 1987), more commonly known as Andy Warhol, was an American painter, printmaker, and filmmaker who was a leading figure in the visual art movement known as pop art.
American Civil War: The American Civil War (1861-1865), also known as the War Between the States as well as several other names, was a civil war in the United States of America. Eleven Southern slave states declared their secession from the United States and formed the Confederate States of America (the Confederacy). Led by Jefferson Davis, they fought against the United States, which was supported by all the free states and the five border slave states.
Alp Arslan: Alp Arslan (1029 - 15 December 1072) was the second sultan of the Seljuk dynasty and great-grandson of Seljuk, the eponym of the dynasty. He assumed the name of Muhammad bin Da'ud Chaghri when he embraced Islam, and for his military prowess, personal valour, and fighting skills he obtained the surname Alp Arslan, which means "a valiant lion" in Turkish.
Aberdeenshire: Aberdeenshire is one of the 32 unitary council areas in Scotland and a lieutenancy area. The present day Aberdeenshire council area does not include the City of Aberdeen, now a separate council area, from which its name derives. Together, the modern council area and the city formed historic Aberdeenshire - one of the counties of Scotland formerly used for local government purposes. Within these borders, the County of Aberdeen remains in existence as a registration county.
American Film Institute: The American Film Institute is an independent non-profit organization created by the National Endowment for the Arts, which was established in 1967 when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act. The organization describes itself as "a national institute providing leadership in screen education and the recognition and celebration of excellence in the art of film, television and digital media.
Akira Kurosawa: Akira Kurosawa ( or , Kurosawa Akira, 23 March 1910 - 6 September 1998) was a Japanese film director, producer, screenwriter and editor. In a career that spanned 50 years, Kurosawa directed 30 films. He is widely regarded as one of the most important and influential filmmakers in film history.
Analog Brothers: Analog Brothers is an experimental hip-hop crew featuring Ice Oscillator also known as Ice-T (keyboards, drums, vocals), Keith Korg also known as Kool Keith (bass, strings, vocals), Mark Moog also known as Marc Live (drums, violyns and vocals), Silver Synth also known as Black Silver (synthesizer, lazar bell and vocals), and Rex Roland also known as Pimp Rex (keyboards, vocals, production).
Ancient Egypt: Ancient Egypt was an ancient civilization of eastern North Africa, concentrated along the lower reaches of the Nile River in what is now the modern country of Egypt. The civilization coalesced around 3150 BC with the political unification of Upper and Lower Egypt under the first pharaoh, and it developed over the next three millennia. Its history occurred in a series of stable Kingdoms, separated by periods of relative instability known as Intermediate Periods.
Motor neurone disease: The motor neurone diseases (or motor neuron diseases) (MND) are a group of neurological disorders that selectively affect motor neurones, the cells that control voluntary muscle activity including speaking, walking, breathing, swallowing and general movement of the body.
Abjad: An abjad is a type of writing system in which each symbol always or usually stands for a consonant; the reader must supply the appropriate vowel. It is a term suggested by Peter T. Daniels to replace the common terms consonantary or consonantal alphabet or syllabary to refer to the family of scripts called West Semitic. In popular usage, abjads often contain the word "alphabet" in their names, such as "Phoenician alphabet" and "Arabic alphabet".
Abugida: An abugida, also called an alphasyllabary, is a segmental writing system which is based on consonants, and in which vowel notation is obligatory but secondary. This contrasts with an alphabet proper, in which vowels have status equal to consonants, and with an abjad, in which vowel marking is absent or optional. (In less formal treatments, all three are commonly called alphabets.
Allegiance: An allegiance is a duty of fidelity said to be owed by a subject or a citizen to his/her state or sovereign.
Aztlan Underground: Aztlan Underground is a fusion band from Los Angeles. Since early 1989, Aztlan Underground has played Rapcore. Indigenous drums, flutes, and rattles are commonplace in its musical compositions. This unique sound is the backdrop for the band's message of dignity for indigenous people, all of humanity, and Earth. Aztlan Underground has been cultivating a grass roots audience across the country, which has become a large and loyal underground following.
Absolute majority: An absolute majority or majority of the entire membership is a voting basis which usually requires that more than half of all the members of a group (including those absent and those present but not voting) must vote in favour of a proposition in order for it to be passed. In practical terms, it may mean that abstention from voting could be equivalent to a no vote.
ABBA: ABBA was a Swedish pop music group formed in Stockholm in 1972, consisting of Anni-Frid Lyngstad (Frida), Bjn Ulvaeus, Benny Andersson and Agnetha Ftskog (Anna). Ftskog and Ulvaeus were a married couple, as were Lyngstad and Andersson during their career, although both couples later divorced. They became one of the most commercially successful acts in the history of popular music, and they topped the charts worldwide from 1972 to 1982.
Afrika Islam: Afrika Islam (born Charles Glenn, 1968, New York City) also known as the "Son of Bambaataa", is an American hip-hop producer .
MessagePad: The MessagePad was the first series of personal digital assistant devices developed by Apple Computer (now Apple Inc. ) for the Newton platform in 1993. Some electronic engineering and the manufacture of Apple's MessagePad devices was done in Japan by the Sharp Corporation. The devices were based on the ARM 610 RISC processor and all featured handwriting recognition software and were developed and marketed by Apple. The devices ran the Newton OS.
A. E. van Vogt: Alfred Elton Van Vogt (April 26, 1912 - January 26, 2000) was a Canadian-born science fiction author regarded by some as one of the most popular and complex science fiction writers of the mid-twentieth century: the "Golden Age" of the genre.
Anna Kournikova: Anna Sergeyevna Kournikova is a Russian professional tennis player and model. Her celebrity status made her one of the best known tennis players worldwide. At the peak of her fame, fans looking for images of Kournikova made her name one of the most common search strings on the Internet search engine Google. Although also successful in singles, reaching No. 8 in the world in 2000, Kournikova's specialty has been doubles, where she has at times been the World No. 1 player.
Argon: Argon is a chemical element designated by the symbol Ar. Argon has atomic number 18 and is the third element in group 18 of the periodic table. Argon is the third most common gas in the Earth's atmosphere, at 0.93% -- making it more common than carbon dioxide. It is the third most abundant gas and the most frequently used of the noble gases. The complete octet in the outer atomic shell makes it stable and resistant to bonding with other elements.
Agnosticism: Agnosticism is the view that the truth value of certain claimsespecially claims about the existence of any deity, but also other religious and metaphysical claimsis unknown or unknowable. Agnosticism can be defined in various ways, and is sometimes used to indicate doubt or a skeptical approach to questions. In some senses, agnosticism is a stance about the differences between belief and knowledge, rather than about any specific claim or belief.
Arsenic: Arsenic is the chemical element that has the symbol As, atomic number 33 and atomic mass 74.92. Arsenic was first documented by Albertus Magnus in 1250. Arsenic is a notoriously poisonous metalloid with many allotropic forms, including a yellow (molecular non-metallic) and several black and grey forms (metalloids).
Alfons Maria Jakob: Alfons Maria Jakob was a German neurologist with important contributions on neuropathology. Alfons Maria Jakob was the son of a shopkeeper. He studied medicine in Munich, Berlin, and Strasbourg, where obtained his doctorate in 1908. In 1909 he commenced clinical work under the psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin and did laboratory work with Franz Nissl and Alois Alzheimer in Munich.
Astatine: Astatine is a radioactive chemical element with the symbol At and atomic number 85. It is the heaviest of the discovered halogens. Although astatine is produced by radioactive decay in nature, due to its short half life it is found only in minute amounts. Astatine was first produced by Dale R. Corson, Kenneth Ross MacKenzie, and Emilio Segr in 1940. Three years passed before traces of astatine were also found in natural minerals.
Antimony: Antimony is a chemical element with the symbol Sb and atomic number 51. A metalloid, antimony has four allotropic forms. The stable form of antimony is a blue-white metalloid. Yellow and black antimony are unstable non-metals. Antimony is used in electronics and flame-proofing, in paints, rubber, ceramics, enamels, drugs to treat Leishmania infection and a wide variety of alloys.
Actinium: Actinium is a radioactive chemical element with the symbol Ac and atomic number 89, which was discovered in 1899. It was the first non-primordial radioactive element to be isolated. Polonium, radium and radon were observed before actinium, but they were not isolated until 1902. Actinium gave the name to the actinoid series, a group of 15 similar elements between actinium and lawrencium in the periodic table.
Arable land: In geography, arable land is an agricultural term, meaning land that can be used for growing crops. It is distinct from cultivated land and includes all land where soil and climate is suitable for agriculture, including forests and natural grasslands, and areas falling under human settlement. According to FAO report, the global land area without major soil fertility constraints is about 31.8 million square kilometers, and total potential arable land is about 41.4 million square kilometers.
Americium: Americium is a synthetic element that has the symbol Am and atomic number 95. A radioactive metallic element, americium is an actinide that was obtained in 1944 by Glenn T. Seaborg who was bombarding plutonium with neutrons and was the fourth transuranic element to be discovered. It was named for the Americas, by analogy with europium. Americium is widely used in commercial ionization chamber smoke detectors, as well as in neutron sources and industrial gauges.
Atom: The atom is a basic unit of matter consisting of a dense, central nucleus surrounded by a cloud of negatively charged electrons. The atomic nucleus contains a mix of positively charged protons and electrically neutral neutrons (except in the case of hydrogen-1, which is the only stable nuclide with no neutron). The electrons of an atom are bound to the nucleus by the electromagnetic force. Likewise, a group of atoms can remain bound to each other, forming a molecule.
Aluminium: Aluminium or aluminum is a silvery white and ductile member of the boron group of chemical elements. It has the symbol Al; its atomic number is 13. It is not soluble in water under normal circumstances. Aluminium is the most abundant metal in the Earth's crust, and the third most abundant element therein, after oxygen and silicon. It makes up about 8% by weight of the Earth's solid surface. Aluminium is too reactive chemically to occur in nature as a free metal.
Arne Kaijser: Arne Kaijser (born 1950) is a professor of History of Technology at the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, and the head of the university's department of History of science and technology. Kaijser has published two books in Swedish: Stadens ljus. Etableringen av de fsta svenska gasverken and I frens sp. Den svenska infrastrukturens historiska utveckling och framtida utmaningar, and has co-edited several anthologies.
Advanced Chemistry: Advanced Chemistry is a German hip hop group from Heidelberg, a scenic city in Baden-Wrttemberg, South Germany. Advanced Chemistry was founded in 1987 by Toni L, Linguist, Gee-One, DJ Mike MD (Mike Dippon) and MC Torch. Each member of the group holds German citizenshhip, and Toni L, Linguist, and Torch are of Italian, Ghanaian, and Haitian backgrounds, respectively..
Archipelago: An archipelago is a chain or cluster of islands that are formed tectonically. The word archipelago, is directly derived from the Greek - - arkhi- ("chief") and - pelagos ("sea"). In Italian, possibly following a tradition of antiquity, the Archipelago was the proper name for the Aegean Sea and, later, usage shifted to refer to the Aegean Islands (since the sea is remarkable for its large number of islands).
Anglican Communion: The Anglican Communion is an international association of national and regional Anglican churches. There is no single "Anglican Church" with universal juridical authority as each national or regional church has full autonomy. As the name suggests, the Anglican Communion is an association of these churches in full communion with the Church of England (which may be regarded as the mother church of the worldwide communion) and specifically with its principal primate, the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Author: An author (sometimes, in reference to a woman author, authoress) is defined both as "the person who originates or gives existence to anything" and that authorship determines responsibility for what is created. The second entry goes on to clarify that, when using the term "author," the "anything" which is created is most usually associated with written work.
Angst: Angst is a German, Danish, Norwegian and Dutch word for fear or anxiety. It is used in English to describe an intense feeling of . The term Angst distinguishes itself from the word Furcht in that Furcht usually refers to a material threat (arranged fear), while Angst is usually a nondirectional emotion. In other languages having the meaning of the Latin word pavor, the derived words differ in meaning, e.g. as in the French anxi and peur.
A. A. Milne: Alan Alexander Milne (Born, 18 January 1882 - Died, 31 January 1956) was an English author, best known for his books about the teddy bear Winnie-the-Pooh and for various children's poems. Milne was a noted writer, primarily as a playwright, before the huge success of Pooh overshadowed all his previous work.
Andrey Markov: Andrey (Andrei) Andreyevich Markov (June 14, 1856 N.S. - July 20, 1922) was a Russian mathematician. He is best known for his work on theory of stochastic processes. His research later became known as Markov chains. He and his younger brother Vladimir Andreevich Markov (1871-1897) proved Markov brothers' inequality. His son, another Andrey Andreevich Markov (1903-1979), was also a notable mathematician, making contributions on constructive mathematics and recursive function theory.
Anxiety: Anxiety is a psychological and physiological state characterized by cognitive, somatic, emotional, and behavioral components. These components combine to create an unpleasant feeling that is typically associated with uneasiness, apprehension, fear, or worry. Anxiety is a generalized mood condition that can often occur without an identifiable triggering stimulus. As such, it is distinguished from fear, which occurs in the presence of an observed threat.
Alumni Athletic Club: Alumni Athletic Club, usually just Alumni, is a rugby union and former Association football sports club from the Belgrano district of Buenos Aires in Argentina. The club was founded in 1891, with the name Buenos Aires English High School.
Axiom: In traditional logic, an axiom or postulate is a proposition that is not proved or demonstrated but considered to be either self-evident, or subject to necessary decision. Therefore, its truth is taken for granted, and serves as a starting point for deducing and inferring other (theory dependent) truths. In mathematics, the term axiom is used in two related but distinguishable senses: "logical axioms" and "non-logical axioms".
Addiction: The meaning of the word addiction in the English lexicon varies according to context. A positive addiction is a beneficial habit--where the benefits outweigh the costs. A negative addiction is a detrimental habitwhere the benefits are not worth the negative financial, physical, spiritual and mental costs. A neutral addiction is a habit in which it is not clear if the organism (or species) benefits from the activity.
Alpha: Alpha is the first letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals it has a value of 1. It was derived from the Phoenician letter Aleph . Letters that arose from Alpha include the Latin A and the Cyrillic letter . In both Classical Greek and Modern Greek, alpha represents the Open front unrounded vowel, /a/. The lower case today represents an open back unrounded vowel in phonetics. Plutarch in Moralia, presents a discussion on why the letter alpha stands first in the alphabet.
Alvin Toffler: Alvin Toffler (born October 3, 1928) is an American writer and futurist, known for his works discussing the digital revolution, communication revolution, corporate revolution and technological singularity. A former associate editor of Fortune magazine, his early work focused on technology and its impact (through effects like information overload). Then he moved to examining the reaction of and changes in society.
AM: Am or am may refer to: Americium, a chemical element with symbol Am Attometre (am), a unit of length (equal to 10 m) A minor (Am), a minor chord in music Americas (as in Pan-Am and Trans-Am) Anguilla (MARC country code am) Amharic language (ISO 639-1 language code am) .
The Amazing Spider-Man comic book: The Amazing Spider-Man is an American comic book series published by Marvel Comics, featuring the adventures of the superhero Spider-Man.
Azincourt: Azincourt (historically, Agincourt in English) is a commune in the Pas-de-Calais department in northern France.
Antigua and Barbuda: Antigua and Barbuda (Spanish for "ancient" and "bearded") is a twin-island nation lying between the Caribbean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. It consists of two major inhabited islands, Antigua and Barbuda, and a number of smaller islands (including Great Bird, Green, Guinea, Long, Maiden and York Islands). Separated by a few sea miles, the group is in the middle of the Leeward Islands part of the Lesser Antilles, roughly at 17 degrees north of the Equator.
Asteraceae: The Asteraceae or Compositae, the aster, daisy, or sunflower family, is the second largest family of flowering plants, in terms of number of species. The name Asteraceae is derived from the type genus Aster, while Compositae, an older but still valid name, means composite and refers to the characteristic inflorescence, a special type of pseudanthium found in only a few other angiosperm families. The study of this family is known as synantherology.
Alliaceae: Alliaceae is a family of herbaceous perennial flowering plants. They are monocots, part of order Asparagales. The family has been widely but not universally recognised; in the past, the plants involved were often treated as belonging to the family Liliaceae, and still are by some botanists. The APG II system of 2003 recognises the family and places it in the order Asparagales in the clade monocots.
Albert Speer: Albert Speer (born Berthold Konrad Hermann Albert Speer, was a German architect who was, for part of World War II, Minister of Armaments and War Production for the Third Reich. Speer was Adolf Hitler's chief architect before assuming ministerial office. As "the Nazi who said sorry", he accepted responsibility at the Nuremberg trials and in his memoirs for crimes of the Nazi regime.
Apiaceae: The Apiaceae or Umbelliferae (both names are allowed by the ICBN) is a family of usually aromatic plants with hollow stems, commonly known as umbellifers. It includes cumin, parsley, anise, carrot, coriander/cilantro, dill, caraway, fennel, parsnip, celery, Queen Anne's Lace and other relatives. It is a large family with about 300 genera and more than 3,000 species.
American shot: "American shot" is a translation of a phrase from French film criticism, "plan amicain" and refers to a medium-long ("knee") film shot of a group of characters, who are arranged so that all are visible to the camera. The usual arrangement is for the actors to stand in an irregular line from one side of the screen to the other, with the actors at the end coming forward a little and standing more in profile than the others.
Axon: An axon or nerve fiber is a long, slender projection of a nerve cell, or neuron, that conducts electrical impulses away from the neuron's cell body or soma. An axon is one of two types of protoplasmic protrusions that extrude from the cell body of a neuron, the other type being dendrites.
Aramaic alphabet: The Aramaic alphabet is adapted from the Phoenician alphabet, and became distinctive from it by the 8th century BCE. The letters all represent consonants, some of which are matres lectionis, which also indicate long vowels. The Aramaic alphabet is historically significant since virtually all modern Middle Eastern writing systems use a script that can be traced back to it, as well as numerous Altaic languages of Central and East Asia.
Ataxia: Ataxia (from Greek - + -, meaning "lack of order") is a neurological sign and symptom consisting of gross lack of coordination of muscle movements. Ataxia is a non-specific clinical manifestation implying dysfunction of parts of the nervous system that coordinate movement, such as the cerebellum. Several possible causes exist for these patterns of neurological dysfunction. The term "dystaxia" is rarely used as a synonym.
Abdul Alhazred: Abdul Alhazred is a fictional character created by American horror writer H. P. Lovecraft. He is the so-called "Mad Arab" credited with authoring the imaginary book Kitab al-Azif, and as such an integral part of Cthulhu Mythos lore. "There are those that believe that one or more of the published hoaxes are in fact actually the work of Lovecraft's creation, Abdul Alhazred.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis: Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) is an immune mediated disease of the brain. It usually occurs following a viral infection but may appear following vaccination, bacterial or parasitic infection, or even appear spontaneously. As it involves autoimmune demyelination, it is similar to multiple sclerosis, and is considered part of the Multiple sclerosis borderline diseases. The incidence rate is about 8 per 1,000,000 people per year..
Ada Lovelace: Augusta Ada King, Countess of Lovelace (10 December 1815 - 27 November 1852), born Augusta Ada Byron, was an English writer chiefly known for her work on Charles Babbage's early mechanical general-purpose computer, the analytical engine. Her notes on the engine include what is recognized as the first algorithm intended to be processed by a machine; as such she is often regarded as the world's first computer programmer.
August Derleth: August William Derleth (February 24, 1909 - July 4, 1971) was an American writer and anthologist. Though best remembered as the first publisher of the writings of H. P. Lovecraft, and for his own contributions to the Cthulhu Mythos genre of horror, Derleth was a leading American regional writer of his day, as well as prolific in several other genres, including historical fiction, poetry, detective fiction, science fiction and biography.
Albert Camus: Albert Camus (7 November 1913 - 4 January 1960) was a French Algerian author, philosopher, and journalist who was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1957. He was a key philosopher of the 20th-century and his most famous work is the novel L'ranger. In 1949, Camus founded the Group for International Liaisons within the Revolutionary Union Movement, which was a group opposed to some tendencies of the surrealistic movement of Andr Breton.
The Plague: The Plague is a novel by Albert Camus, published in 1947, that tells the story of medical workers finding solidarity in their labour as the Algerian city of Oran is swept by a plague epidemic. It asks a number of questions relating to the nature of destiny and the human condition. The characters in the book, ranging from doctors to vacationers to fugitives, all help to show the effects the plague has on a populace.
Agatha Christie: Dame Agatha Christie DBE (15 September 1890 - 12 January 1976), was an English crime writer of novels, short stories and plays. She also wrote romances under the name Mary Westmacott, but is best remembered for her 80 detective novels and her successful West End theatre plays.
Absolute value: In mathematics, the absolute value (or modulus) |a| of a real number a is as numerical value without regard to its sign. So, for example, 3 is the absolute value of both 3 and 3. Generalizations of the absolute value for real numbers occur in a wide variety of mathematical settings. For example an absolute value is also defined for the complex numbers, the quaternions, ordered rings, fields and vector spaces.
Applied ethics: Applied ethics is, in the words of Brenda Almond, co-founder of the Society for Applied Philosophy, "the philosophical examination, from a moral standpoint, of particular issues in private and public life that are matters of moral judgment". It is thus a term used to describe attempts to use philosophical methods to identify the morally correct course of action in various fields of human life.
Alps: The Alps are one of the great mountain range systems of Europe, stretching from Austria and Slovenia in the east; through Italy, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Germany; to France in the west. The highest mountain in the Alps is Mont Blanc, at 4,808 metres (15,774 ft), on the Italian-French border. All the main peaks of the Alps can be found in the list of mountains of the Alps and list of Alpine peaks by prominence.
Analog signal: An Analog or analogue signal is any continuous signal for which the time varying feature (variable) of the signal is a representation of some other time varying quantity, i.e. , analogous to another time varying signal. It differs from a digital signal in terms of small fluctuations in the signal which are meaningful. Analog is usually thought of in an electrical context; however, mechanical, pneumatic, hydraulic, and other systems may also convey analog signals.
Hercule Poirot: Hercule Poirot is a fictional Belgian detective created by Agatha Christie. Along with Miss Marple, Poirot is one of Christie's most famous and long-lived characters, appearing in 33 novels and 51 short stories that were published between 1920 and 1975 and set in the same era. Poirot has been portrayed on screen, for films and television, by various actors including Albert Finney, Peter Ustinov, Ian Holm, Tony Randall, Alfred Molina and David Suchet.
Miss Marple: Jane Marple, usually referred to as Miss Marple, is a fictional character appearing in twelve of Agatha Christie's crime novels. Miss Marple is an elderly spinster who acts as an amateur detective, and lives in the village of St. Mary Mead. She is one of the most famous of Christie's characters and has been portrayed numerous times on screen.
August: August (pronunciation) is the eighth month of the year in the Gregorian Calendar and one of seven Gregorian months with a length of 31 days. This month was originally named Sextilis in Latin, because it was the sixth month in the original ten-month Roman calendar under Romulus in 753 BCE, when March was the first month of the year. About 700 BCE it became the eighth month when January and February were added to the year before March by King Numa Pompilius, who also gave it 29 days.
April: April (pronunciation) is the fourth month of the year in the Gregorian Calendar, and one of four months with a length of 30 days. April was originally the second month of the Roman calendar, before January and February were added by King Numa Pompilius about 700 BC. It became the fourth month of the calendar year (the year when twelve months are displayed in order) during the time of the decemvirs about 450 BC, when it also was given 29 days. The derivation of the name is uncertain.
Aaron: In the Hebrew Bible, Aaron, sometimes called Aaron the Levite ( ), was the brother of Moses, and represented the priestly functions of his tribe, becoming the first High Priest of the Israelites. While Moses was receiving his education at the Egyptian royal court and during his exile among the Midianites, Aaron and his sister remained with their kinsmen in the eastern border-land of Egypt.
Alcohol: In chemistry, an alcohol is any organic compound in which a hydroxyl functional group is bound to a carbon atom, usually connected to other carbon or hydrogen atoms. An important class are the simple acyclic alcohols, the general formula for which is CnH2n+1OH. Of those, ethanol (C2H5OH) is the type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages, and in common speech the word alcohol refers specifically to ethanol.
Algebraically closed field: In mathematics, a field F is said to be algebraically closed if every polynomial with one variable of degree at least 1, with coefficients in F, has a root in F.
Achill Island: Achill Island in County Mayo is the largest island off of Ireland, and is situated off the west coast. It has a population of 2,700. Its area is 148 km (57 sq mi). Achill is attached to the mainland by Michael Davitt Bridge, between the villages of Gob an Choire and Poll Raithn. A bridge was first completed here in 1887, and replaced by the current structure in 1949. Other centres of population include the villages of Keel, Dooagh, Dumha ge and Dugort.
Aspect ratio: The aspect ratio of a shape is the ratio of its longer dimension to its shorter dimension. It may be applied to two characteristic dimensions of a three-dimensional shape, such as the ratio of the longest and shortest axis, or for symmetrical objects that are described by just two measurements, such as the length and diameter of a rod. The aspect ratio of a torus is the ratio of the major axis R to the minor axis r.
Auto racing: Auto racing (also known as automobile racing or car racing) is a motorsport involving racing cars. It is one of the world's most watched television sports.
Anatoly Karpov: Anatoly Yevgenyevich Karpov is a Soviet and Russian chess grandmaster and former World Champion. He was official world champion from 1975 to 1985, played three more matches for the title from 1986 to 1990, then was FIDE World Champion from 1993 to 1999. For his decades-long standing among the world's elite, Karpov is considered one of the greatest players of all time. His tournament successes include over 160 first-place finishes.
Anarcho-capitalism: Anarcho-capitalism is an individualist anarchist political philosophy that advocates the elimination of the state and the elevation of the sovereign individual in a free market. In an anarcho-capitalist society, law enforcement, courts, and all other security services would be provided by voluntarily-funded competitors such as private defense agencies rather than through taxation, and money would be privately and competitively provided in an open market.
Albert Schweitzer: Albert Schweitzer (14 January 1875 - 4 September 1965) was an Alsatian German-French theologian, musician, philosopher, and physician. He was born in Kaysersberg in the province of Alsace-Lorraine, from 1871 to 1918 in the German Empire.
Aristophanes: Aristophanes (, ca. 446 - ca. 386 BC), son of Philippus, of the deme Cydathenaus, was a prolific and much acclaimed comic playwright of ancient Athens. Eleven of his forty plays survive virtually complete. These, together with fragments of some of his other plays, provide the only real examples of a genre of comic drama known as Old Comedy, and they are in fact used to define the genre.
Austrian School: The Austrian School (also known as the Vienna School or the Psychological School) is a non-mainstream school of economic thought that emphasizes the spontaneous organizing power of the price mechanism or price system. Austrians hold that the complexity of human behavior makes mathematical modeling of the evolving market extremely difficult and advocate a laissez faire approach to the economy.
Ancient Pueblo Peoples: Ancient Pueblo People or Ancestral Puebloans were an ancient Native American culture centered on the present-day Four Corners area of the United States, comprising southern Utah, northern Arizona, northwest New Mexico, and a lesser section of Colorado. The cultural group has often been referred to in archaeology as the Anasazi, although the term is not preferred by the modern Puebloan peoples. The word Anasazi is Navajo for "Ancient Ones" or "Ancient Enemy".
Aalborg Municipality: Aalborg Municipality is a municipality in Region Nordjylland on the Jutland peninsula in northern Denmark. The municipality straddles the Limfjord, the waterway which connects the North Sea and the Kattegat east-to-west, and which separates the main body of the Jutland peninsula from the island of Vendsyssel-Thy north-to-south. It has a land area of 1,143.99 km, population 197,426 (2010) and belongs to Region Nordjylland ("North Jutland Region").
Abscess: An abscess is a collection of pus that has accumulated in a cavity formed by the tissue on the basis of an infectious process or other foreign materials (e.g. , splinters, bullet wounds, or injecting needles). It is a defensive reaction of the tissue to prevent the spread of infectious materials to other parts of the body. The organisms or foreign materials kill the local cells, resulting in the release of cytokines.
Allen Ginsberg: Irwin Allen Ginsberg (June 3, 1926 - April 5, 1997) was an American poet. Ginsberg is best known for the poem "Howl" (1956), in which he celebrates fellow members of the Beat Generation and critiques what he saw as the destructive forces of materialism and conformity in the United States.
Northern cavefish: The northern cavefish or northern blindfish, Amblyopsis spelea, is found in caves through Kentucky and southern Indiana. It is listed as a threatened species in the United States and the IUCN lists the species as vulnerable. The White River, flowing east to west south of Bedford, Indiana, delimits the northern range of Amblyopsis spelea. These fish are not found in caves north of the White River.
Aarhus: Aarhus, or hus, is the second largest city in Denmark, and 99th-largest in the European Union, and the sixth-largest amongst the Nordic countries. The principal port of Denmark, it is situated on the east side of the peninsula of Jutland in the geographical center of Denmark. Aarhus is the seat of the council of Aarhus municipality with 307,000 inhabitants and 239,865 in the inner urban area, and app. 800.000 inhabitants within 1/2 hour transport (Storhus) .
Alexis Carrel: Alexis Carrel (June 28, 1873 - November 5, 1944) was a French surgeon, biologist and eugenicist, who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1912.
Anatole France: Anatole France (16 April 184412 October 1924), born Franis-Anatole Thibault, was a French poet, journalist, and novelist. He was born in Paris, and died in Saint-Cyr-sur-Loire. He was a successful novelist, with several best-sellers. Ironic and skeptical, he was considered in his day the ideal French man of letters. He was a member of the Acadie franise, and won the Nobel Prize for Literature.
Amateur: An amateur (French amateur "lover of", from Old French and ultimately from Latin amatorem nom. amator, "lover") is generally considered a person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science, without pay and often without formal training. An amateur receives little or irregular income from their activities, and thus differs from a professional who makes a living from the pursuit and typically has formal training and certifications in the domain.
All Souls' Day: In Western Christianity, All Souls' Day commemorates the faithful departed. This day is principally observed in the Catholic Church, although some churches of the Anglican Communion and the Old Catholic Churches also celebrate it. The Eastern Orthodox churches observe several All Souls' Days during the year.
Almond: The Almond (Prunus dulcis, syn. Prunus amygdalus Batsch. , Amygdalus communis L. , Amygdalus dulcis Mill. ) is a species of tree native to the Middle East. Almond is also the name of the edible and widely cultivated seed of this tree. Within the genus Prunus, it is classified with Peach in the subgenus Amygdalus, distinguished from the other subgenera by the corrugated shell surrounding the seed.
Algorithms for calculating variance: Algorithms for calculating variance play a major role in statistical computing. A key problem in the design of good algorithms for this problem is that formulas for the variance may involve sums of squares, which can lead to numerical instability as well as to arithmetic overflow when dealing with large values.
Andr Gide: Andr Paul Guillaume Gide (22 November 1869 - 19 February 1951) was a French author and winner of the Nobel Prize in literature in 1947. Gide's career ranged from its beginnings in the symbolist movement, to the advent of anticolonialism between the two World Wars.
Demographics of Antigua and Barbuda: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Antigua and Barbuda, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Royal Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force: The Royal Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force is the armed force of Antigua and Barbuda. The RABDF consists of four major units: 1st Battalion, Antigua and Barbuda Regiment - this is the infantry unit and fighting arm of the defence force. Service and Support Unit - established in 1997, this provides administrative, logistic and engineer support to the rest of the defence force.
Politics of Antigua and Barbuda: The politics of Antigua and Barbuda takes place in a framework of a federal parliamentary representative democratic monarchy, wherein the Sovereign of Antigua and Barbuda is the head of state, appointing a Governor-General to act as vice-regal representative in the nation. A Prime Minister is appointed by the Governor-General as the head of government, and of a multi-party system; the Prime Minister advises the Governor-General on the appointment of a Council of Ministers.
Economy of Azerbaijan: Azerbaijan is an economy that has completed its post-Soviet transition into a major oil based economy (with the completion of the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Pipeline), from one where the state played the major role. Azeri GDP grew 41.7% in the first quarter of 2007, possibly the highest of any nation worldwide.
Telecommunications in Antigua and Barbuda: Telephones - main lines in use: 37,500 (2006) country comparison to the world: 168 Telephones - mobile cellular: 110,200 (2006) (APUA PCS, Cable & Wireless, Digicel) country comparison to the world: 177 Telephone system: domestic: good automatic telephone system international: 3 fiber optic submarine cables; satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean)
Geography of Azerbaijan: Azerbaijan is situated in the Caucasus region of Eurasia. Three physical features dominate Azerbaijan: the Caspian Sea, whose shoreline forms a natural boundary to the east; the Greater Caucasus mountain range to the north; and the extensive flatlands at the country's center. About the size of Portugal or the state of Maine, Azerbaijan has a total land area of approximately 86,600 square kilometers, less than 1% of the land area of the former Soviet Union.
Antisemitism: Antisemitism (also spelled anti-semitism or anti-Semitism) is prejudice against or hostility towards Jews, often rooted in hatred of their ethnic background, culture, or religion. In its extreme form, it "attributes to the Jews an exceptional position among all other civilisations, defames them as an inferior group and denies their being part of the nation[s]" in which they reside.
Azerbaijani Armed Forces: The Azerbaijani Armed Forces were re-established according to the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on the Armed Forces from October 9, 1991. The Azeri Democratic Republic had originally formed its own armed forces from 26 June 1918. However these were dissolved after Azerbaijan was absorbed into the Soviet Union as the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic from April 28, 1920.
Geography of Armenia: Geographic coordinates: 4000N 4500E; / ;40 45; / 40; 45
Demographics of Armenia: The Demographics of Armenia is about the demographic features of the population of Armenia, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population. File:Population of Armenia since 1949. svg Demographics of Armenia. Data of Demoscope, NSSRA; Number of inhabitants in thousands.
Politics of Armenia: Politics of Armenia takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President is the head of government, and of a platform multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament.
Transport in Armenia: This article considers transport in Armenia.
Economy of Armenia: Armenia is the second most densely populated of the former Soviet republics. It is situated between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea, bordered on the north and east by Georgia and Azerbaijan and on the south and west by Iran and Turkey. Until independence, Armenia's economy was based largely on industry--chemicals, electronic products, machinery, processed food, synthetic rubber, and textiles-and highly dependent on outside resources.
Demographics of American Samoa: This article is about the demographic features of the population of American Samoa, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Armed Forces of Armenia: The Armed Forces of the Republic of Armenia represents the Army, Air Force, Air Defense, and Border Guard. It was partially formed out of the former Soviet Army forces stationed in the Armenian SSR (parts of the Transcaucasian Military District). Being a landlocked country, Armenia has no navy. The Commander-in-Chief of the military is the President of Armenia, currently Serzh Sargsyan.
Foreign relations of Armenia: Armenia maintains good relations with almost every country in the world, the major exceptions being two of its immediate neighbors, Azerbaijan and Turkey.
Foreign relations of Azerbaijan: Azerbaijan File:Coat of arms of Azerbaijan.
Politics of American Samoa: Politics of American Samoa takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic dependency, whereby the Governor is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. American Samoa is an unincorporated and unorganized territory of the United States, administered by the Office of Insular Affairs, US Department of the Interior. Its constitution was ratified 1966 and came into effect 1967. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Economy of American Samoa: The economy of American Samoa is a traditional Polynesian economy in which more than 90% of the land is communally owned. Economic activity is strongly linked to the United States, with which American Samoa conducts the great bulk of its foreign trade. Tuna fishing and processing plants are the backbone of the private sector, with canned tuna being the primary export. Transfers from the U.S. federal government add substantially to American Samoa's economic well-being.
Transport in American Samoa: Railways: 0 km Highways: total: 221 km (2007) country comparison to the world: 206 Ports and harbors: Aunuu, Auasi, Falesao, Ofu, Pago Pago Merchant marine: none (1999 est. ) Airports: 3 (208) country comparison to the world: 195 Airports - with paved runways:Pago Pago International Airport total: 3 over 3,047 m:' 1 2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 under 914 m: 1 (2008) Airports - with unpaved runways: total: 0
The Ashes: The Ashes is a Test cricket series played between England and Australia. It is one of international cricket's most celebrated rivalries and dates back to 1882. It is currently played biennially, alternately in the United Kingdom and Australia. Since cricket is a summer sport, the venues being in opposite hemispheres means the break between series alternates between 18 and 30 months.
Analysis: Analysis is the process of breaking a complex topic or substance into smaller parts to gain a better understanding of it. The technique has been applied in the study of mathematics and logic since before Aristotle, though analysis as a formal concept is a relatively recent development. The word is a transcription of the ancient Greek (analusis), "a breaking up" (from ana- "up, throughout" and lysis "a loosening").
Abner Doubleday: Abner Doubleday (June 26, 1819 - January 26, 1893) was a career United States Army officer and Union general in the American Civil War. He fired the first shot in defense of Fort Sumter, the opening battle of the war, and had a pivotal role in the early fighting at the Battle of Gettysburg. Gettysburg was his finest hour, but his relief by Maj. Gen. George G. Meade caused lasting enmity between the two men.
America's National Game: America's National Game is a book by Albert Spalding, published in 1911 detailing the early history of the sport of baseball. Much of the story is told first-hand, since Spalding had been involved in the game, first as a player and later an administrator, since the 1850s. In addition to his personal recollections, he had access to the records of Henry Chadwick, the game's first statistician and archivist.
Amplitude modulation: Amplitude modulation (AM) is a technique used in electronic communication, most commonly for transmitting information via a radio carrier wave. AM works by varying the strength of the transmitted signal in relation to the information being sent. For example, changes in the signal strength can be used to reflect the sounds to be reproduced by a speaker, or to specify the light intensity of television pixels.
Abbot: The word abbot, meaning father, is a title given to the head of a monastery in various traditions, including Christianity. The office may also be given as an honorary title to a clergyman who is not actually the head of a monastery. The female equivalent is Abbess.
Avicenna: Ab Al al-usayn ibn Abd Allh ibn Sn', known as Ab Al Sn or, more commonly, Ibn Sn, and commonly known in English by his Latinized name Avicenna, (c. 980 - 1037) was a Persian polymath and the foremost physician and philosopher of his time. He was also an astronomer, chemist, geologist, logician, paleontologist, mathematician, physicist, poet, psychologist, scientist and teacher. Ibn Sn studied medicine under a physician named Koushyar.
Ardipithecus: Ardipithecus is a very early hominin genus. Two species are described in the literature: A. ramidus, which lived about 4.4 million years ago during the early Pliocene, and A. kadabba, dated to approximately 5.6 million years ago.
Augustin-Jean Fresnel: Augustin-Jean Fresnel (10 May 1788 - 14 July 1827), was a French physicist who contributed significantly to the establishment of the theory of wave optics. Fresnel studied the behaviour of light both theoretically and experimentally. He is perhaps best known as the inventor of the Fresnel lens, first adopted in lighthouses while he was a French commissioner of lighthouses, and found in many applications today.
Alan Garner: Alan Garner OBE (born in Congleton, Cheshire, 17 October 1934) is an English writer whose work is firmly rooted in Cheshire.
Assembly line: An assembly line is a manufacturing process in which parts are added to a product in a sequential manner using optimally planned logistics to create a finished product much faster than with handcrafting-type methods. The assembly line developed by Ford Motor Company between 1908 and 1915 made assembly lines famous in the following decade through the social ramifications of mass production, such as the affordability of the Ford Model T and the introduction of high wages for Ford workers.
Atlantic disambiguation: The Atlantic Ocean is the second-largest of the world's oceans Atlantic may also refer to:
Algebraic number: In mathematics, an algebraic number is a complex number that is a root of a non-zero polynomial in one variable with rational coefficients. Numbers such as that are not algebraic are said to be transcendental, and are infinitely more numerous within the complex number field.
Adelaide: Adelaide is the capital and most populous city of the Australian state of South Australia, and is the fifth-largest city in Australia, with a population of more than 1.28 million. It is a coastal city situated on the eastern shores of Gulf St. Vincent, on the Adelaide Plains, north of the Fleurieu Peninsula, between the Gulf St. Vincent and the low-lying Mount Lofty Ranges.
Artificial intelligence: Artificial intelligence (AI) is the intelligence of machines and the branch of computer science that aims to create it. Textbooks define the field as "the study and design of intelligent agents,"
Automorphism: In mathematics, an automorphism is an isomorphism from a mathematical object to itself. It is, in some sense, a symmetry of the object, and a way of mapping the object to itself while preserving all of its structure. The set of all automorphisms of an object forms a group, called the automorphism group. It is, loosely speaking, the symmetry group of the object.
Accordion: The accordion is a box-shaped musical instrument of the bellows-driven free-reed aerophone family, sometimes referred to as a squeezebox. A person who plays the accordion is called an accordionist. It is played by compressing or expanding a bellows whilst pressing buttons or keys, causing valves, called pallets, to open, which allow air to flow across strips of brass or steel, called reeds, that vibrate to produce sound inside the body.
Afro Celt Sound System: The Afro Celt Sound System is a musical group which fuses modern dance rhythms with traditional Irish (Celtic) and West African music. It was formed by Grammy-nominated producer-guitarist Simon Emmerson, and is considered to be somewhat of a world music supergroup, often having a wide range of guest artists on their albums.
Ancient philosophy: This page lists some links to ancient philosophy. In Western philosophy, the spread of Christianity through the Roman Empire marked the end of Hellenistic philosophy and ushered in the beginnings of Medieval philosophy, whereas in Eastern philosophy, the spread of Islam through the Arab Empire marked the end of Old Iranian philosophy and ushered in the beginnings of early Islamic philosophy.
APL: APL is an abbreviation, acronym, or initialism that may refer to:
Architect: An architect is trained and licensed in the planning and designing of buildings, and participates in supervising the construction of a building. Etymologically, architect derives from the Latin architectus, itself derived from the Greek arkhitekton (arkhi-, chief + tekton, builder), i.e. chief builder. A looser usage of Architect is: the translator of the building user's requirements of and from a building into an inhabitable environment.
Anaximander: Anaximander (c. 610 BC-c. 546 BC) was a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher who lived in Miletus, a city of Ionia; Milet in modern Turkey. He belonged to the Milesian school and learned the teachings of his master Thales. He succeeded him and became the second master of that school where he counted Anaximenes and Pythagoras amongst his pupils. Little of his life and work is known today.
Abbreviation: An abbreviation (from Latin brevis, meaning "short") is a shortened form of a word or phrase. Usually, but not always, it consists of a letter or group of letters taken from the word or phrase. For example, the word abbreviation can itself be represented by the abbreviation abbr. or abbrev.
Aleister Crowley: Aleister Crowley (12 October 1875 - 1 December 1947), born Edward Alexander Crowley, and also known as both Frater Perdurabo and The Great Beast, was an influential English occultist and ceremonial magician, responsible for founding the religion of Thelema. He was a member of the esoteric Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, as well as a co-founder of the AA and eventually a leader of the Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.).
Antisymmetric relation: In mathematics, a binary relation R on a set X is antisymmetric if, for all a and b in X if R(a,b) and R(b,a), then a = b, or, equivalently, if R(a,b) with a b, then R(b,a) must not hold. In mathematical notation, this is: or equally, An example of an antisymmetric relation is the subset relation: Or in words, if every element in A also is in B and all elements in B are in A, then A and B must be equal, i.e. containing all the same elements.
Aphrodite: Aphrodite is the Greek goddess of love, beauty and sexuality. According to Greek poet Hesiod, she was born when Cronus cut off Ouranos' genitals and threw them into the sea, and from the aphros (sea foam) arose Aphrodite. Because of her beauty other gods feared that jealousy would interrupt the peace among them and lead to war, and so Zeus married her to Hephaestus, who was not viewed as a threat. Her unhappiness in marriage caused her to frequently seek out the companionship of her lover Ares.
Afterlife: The afterlife (also referred to as life after death or the hereafter) is the idea that the consciousness or mind of a being continues after physical death occurs. In many popular views, this continued existence often takes place in an immaterial or spiritual realm. Major views on the afterlife derive from religion, esotericism and metaphysics.
Astrometry: Astrometry is the branch of astronomy that relates to precise measurements and explanations of the positions and movements of stars and other celestial bodies. Although once thought of as an esoteric field with little useful application for the future, the information obtained by astrometric measurements is now very important in contemporary research into the kinematics and physical origin of our Solar System and our Galaxy, the Milky Way.
Amber Diceless Roleplaying Game: The Amber Diceless Roleplaying Game is a role-playing game created and written by Erick Wujcik, set in the fictional universe created by author Roger Zelazny for his Chronicles of Amber. The game is unusual in that no dice are used in resolving conflicts or player actions; instead a simple diceless system of comparative ability, and narrative description of the action by the players and gamemaster, is used to determine how situations are resolved.
Athena: Athena or Athene, also referred to as Pallas Athena, is the goddess of civilization, wisdom, strength, strategy, craft, justice and skill in Greek mythology. Minerva, Athena's Roman incarnation, embodies similar attributes. Athena is also a shrewd companion of heroes and the goddess of heroic endeavour. She is the virgin patron of Athens. The Athenians built the Parthenon on the Acropolis of her namesake city, Athens, in her honour (Athena Parthenos).
Athene disambiguation: Athene is the shrewd companion of heroes and the goddess of heroic endeavour in Greek mythology. Athene may also refer to: Athene (MovieLOL), a fictional character from the MovieLOL series of YouTube Videos 881 Athene, a main belt asteroid Athene (owl), a genus that contains two to four living species of small owls Athene Seyler (1889-1990), English actress HMS Athene, an aircraft transport USS Athene (AKA-22), an Artemis class attack cargo ship
Articles of Faith: Articles of faith are sets of beliefs usually found in creeds, sometimes numbered, and often beginning with "We believe... ", which attempt to more or less define the fundamental theology of a given religion, and especially in the Christian Church.
Alloy: An alloy is a partial or complete solid solution of one or more elements in a metallic matrix. Complete solid solution alloys give single solid phase microstructure, while partial solutions give two or more phases that may be homogeneous in distribution depending on thermal (heat treatment) history. Alloys usually have different properties from those of the component elements.
Artistic revolution: Throughout history, forms of art have gone through periodic abrupt changes called artistic revolutions. Movements have come to an end to be replaced by a new movement markedly different in striking ways. See also cultural movements.
Alternative history: Alternative history may refer to a number of subjects relating to history, the chronology and study of the past.
April 1: April 1 is the 91st day of the year in the Gregorian calendar. There are 274 days remaining until the end of the year. April 1 is most notable in the Western world for being April Fools' Day.
Agrarianism: Agrarianism is a social and political philosophy which stresses a rural or semi-rural lifestyle, most especially agricultural pursuits such as farming or ranching. Proponents claim that it leads to a fuller, happier, cleaner, and more sustainable way of life for both individuals and society as a whole.
Atomic: Atomic may refer to: Of or relating to the Atom, the smallest particle of a chemical element that retains its chemical properties Atomic (magazine), an Australian computing and technology magazine Atomic Skis, an Austrian ski producer Atomic (band), a Norwegian jazz quintet Atomic (album), an album by Lit "Atomic" (song), a song by Blondie "Atomic", a song by Tiger Army from '
Angle: In geometry, an angle (in full, plane angle) is the figure formed by two rays sharing a common endpoint, called the vertex of the angle. The magnitude of the angle is the "amount of rotation" that separates the two rays, and can be measured by considering the length of circular arc swept out when one ray is rotated about the vertex to coincide with the other (see "Measuring angles", below).
Atomic physics: Atomic physics (or atom physics) is the field of physics that studies atoms as an isolated system of electrons and an atomic nucleus. It is primarily concerned with the arrangement of electrons around the nucleus and the processes by which these arrangements change. This includes ions as well as neutral atoms and, unless otherwise stated, for the purposes of this discussion it should be assumed that the term atom includes ions.
Acoustics: Acoustics is the interdisciplinary science that deals with the study of sound, ultrasound and infrasound (all mechanical waves in gases, liquids, and solids). A scientist who works in the field of acoustics is an acoustician. The application of acoustics in technology is called acoustical engineering. There is often much overlap and interaction between the interests of acousticians and acoustical engineers.
Alternate history: Alternate history or alternative history is a genre of fiction consisting of stories that are set in worlds in which history has diverged from the actual history of the world. It can be variously seen as a subgenre of literary fiction, science fiction, and historical fiction; different alternate history works may use tropes from any or all of these genres. It is sometimes abbreviated AH. Another occasionally-used term for the genre is "allohistory" (literally "other history").
American Sign Language: American Sign Language (or ASL, Ameslan) is the dominant sign language of the Deaf Americans. Although the United Kingdom and the United States share English as a spoken and written language, British Sign Language (BSL) is quite different from ASL, and the two sign languages are not mutually intelligible.
Applet: An applet is any small application that performs one specific task; sometimes running within the context of a larger program, perhaps as a plugin. However, the term typically also refers to programs written in the Java programming language which are included in an HTML page. The word Applet originally comes from the application AppleScript.
Area: Area is a quantity expressing the two-dimensional size of a defined part of a surface, typically a region bounded by a closed curve. The term surface area refers to the total area of the exposed surface of a 3-dimensional solid, such as the sum of the areas of the exposed sides of a polyhedron. Area is an important invariant in the differential geometry of surfaces.
Atomic orbital: An atomic orbital is a mathematical function that describes the wave-like behavior of either one electron or a pair of electrons in an atom. This function can be used to calculate the probability of finding any electron of an atom in any specific region around the atom's nucleus. These functions may serve as three-dimensional graph of an electrons likely location. The term may thus refer directly to the physical region defined by the function where the electron is likely to be.
Astronomical unit: An astronomical unit (abbreviated as AU, au, a.u. , or sometimes ua) is a unit of length equal to about 149,597,871 kilometres. It is defined by the International Astronomical Union, and is defined as the mean distance between the Earth and the Sun over one Earth orbit. The symbol ua is recommended by the International Bureau of Weights and Measures, but au is more common in Anglosphere countries. The International Astronomical Union recommends au, while international standard ISO 31-1 uses AU.
Alan Turing: Alan Mathison Turing, OBE, FRS (23 June 1912 - 7 June 1954), was an English mathematician, logician, cryptanalyst, and computer scientist. He was influential in the development of computer science and providing a formalisation of the concept of the algorithm and computation with the Turing machine, playing a significant role in the creation of the modern computer.
Amino acid: Amino acids are molecules containing an amine group, a carboxylic acid group and a side chain that varies between different amino acids. These molecules are particularly important in biochemistry, where this term refers to alpha-amino acids with the general formula H2NCHRCOOH, where R is an organic substituent. In an alpha amino acid, the amino and carboxylate groups are attached to the same carbon atom, which is called the -carbon.
Artist: The definition of an artist is wide-ranging and covers a broad spectrum of to do with creating art, practicing the arts and/or demonstrating an art. The common usage in both everyday speech and academic discourse is a practitioner in the visual arts only. The term is often used in the entertainment business, especially in a business context, for musicians and other performers (less often for actors). "Artiste" (the French for artist) is a variant used in English only in this context.
Actaeon: In Greek mythology, Actaeon, son of the priestly herdsman Aristaeus and Autonoe in Boeotia, was a famous Theban hero, trained by the centaur Cheiron, who suffered the fatal wrath of Artemis; (later his myth was attached to her Roman counterpart Diana).
Anglicanism: Anglicanism is a tradition within Christianity comprising churches with historical connections to the Church of England or similar beliefs, worship and church structures. Anglicanism forms one of the principal traditions of Christianity, together with Protestantism, Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy. The word Anglican originates in ecclesia anglicana, a medieval Latin phrase dating to at least 1246 meaning the English Church. Adherents of Anglicanism are called Anglicans.
Telecommunications in Anguilla: Telephones - main lines in use: 6,200 (2002) country comparison to the world: 212 Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,800 (2002) country comparison to the world: 211 Telephone system: Domestic: Modern internal telephone system International: EAST CARIBBEAN FIBRE SYSTEM ECFS (cable system) microwave radio relay to island of Saint Martin
Anguilla: Anguilla is a British overseas territory in the Caribbean, one of the most northerly of the Leeward Islands in the Lesser Antilles. It consists of the main island of Anguilla itself, approximately 26 km (16 mi) long by 5 km (3.1 mi) wide at its widest point, together with a number of much smaller islands and cays with no permanent population. The island's capital is The Valley. The total land area of the territory is 91 km (35 sq mi), with a population of approximately 13,500 (2006 estimate).
Acoustic theory: Acoustic theory is the field relating to mathematical description of sound waves. It is derived from fluid dynamics. See acoustics for the engineering approach. The propagation of sound waves in a fluid (such as air) can be modeled by an equation of motion and an equation of continuity.
Athens: Athens, the capital and largest city of Greece, dominates the Attica periphery; as one of the world's oldest cities, its recorded history spans around 3,400 years. The Greek capital has a population of 745,513 (in 2001) within its administrative limits and a land area of 39 km (15 sq mi). The urban area of Athens extends beyond the administrative city limits with a population of 3,130,841 (in 2001) and a land area of 412 km (159 sq mi).
Ashmore and Cartier Islands: The Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands are two groups of small low-lying uninhabited tropical islands in the Indian Ocean situated on the edge of the continental shelf north-west of Australia and south of the Indonesian island of Rote at 1214S 1235E; / ;12.233 123.083; / -12.233; 123.083Coordinates: 1214S 1235E; / ;12.233 123.083; / -12.233; 123.083.
Alexander Mackenzie: Alexander Mackenzie, PC (January 28, 1822 - April 17, 1892), a building contractor and newspaper editor, was the second Prime Minister of Canada from November 7, 1873 to October 9, 1878.
Ada programming language: Ada is a structured, statically typed, imperative, wide-spectrum, and object-oriented high-level computer programming language, extended from Pascal and other languages. It was originally designed by a team led by Jean Ichbiah of CII Honeywell Bull under contract to the United States Department of Defense (DoD) from 1977 to 1983 to supersede the hundreds of programming languages then used by the DoD.
American word: The meaning of the word American in the English language varies, according to the historical, geographical, and political context in which it is used. It is derived from America, a term originally denoting all of the New World (also called "the Americas"). It retains this Pan-American sense, but its usage has evolved over time and, due to various historical reasons, the word came to denote people or things specifically from the United States of America.
Alfonso Cuar n: Alfonso Cuar Orozco (born 28 November 1961) is an Academy Award-nominated Mexican filmmaker, screenwriter and film producer. Some of his works include Y tu mam tambi, Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, A Little Princess and Children of Men.
Alfonso Arau: Alfonso Arau (born January 11, 1932) is a Mexican actor and director. Arau was born in Mexico City, the son of a doctor. He directed the films ', Like Water for Chocolate (adapted from the novel written by his ex-wife Laura Esquivel), A Walk in the Clouds with Keanu Reeves and Anthony Quinn, and the Hallmark Hall of Fame production A Painted House, adapted from the John Grisham novel of the same name.
Arianism: Arianism is the theological teaching of Arius, a Christian presbyter from Alexandria, Egypt, concerning the relationship of the entities of the Trinity ('God the Father', 'God the Son' and 'God the Holy Spirit') and the precise nature of the Son of God. Deemed a heretic by the First Council of Nicaea of 325, Arius was later exonerated in 335 at the First Synod of Tyre, and then pronounced a heretic again after his death at the First Council of Constantinople of 381.
Ashoka the Great: Ashoka, popularly known as Ashoka the Great, was an Indian emperor of the Maurya Dynasty who ruled almost all of the Indian subcontinent from 269 BC to 232 BC. One of India's greatest emperors, Ashoka reigned over most of present-day India after a number of military conquests. His empire stretched from present-day Pakistan, Afghanistan in the west, to the present-day Bangladesh and the Indian state of Assam in the east, and as far south as northern Kerala and Andhra.
Antoninus Pius: Titus Aurelius Fulvus Boionius Arrius Antoninus (19 September 86 - 7 March 161), generally known in English as Antoninus Pius was the fifteenth Roman emperor from 138 to 161. He was the fourth of the Five Good Emperors and a member of the Aurelii. He did not possess the sobriquet "Pius" until after his accession to the throne.
Anisotropy: Anisotropy is the property of being directionally dependent, as opposed to isotropy, which implies homogeneity in all directions. It can be defined as a difference, when measured along different axes, in a material's physical property (absorbance, refractive index, density, etc. ) An example of anisotropy is the light coming through a polarizer.
Advanced Encryption Standard: In cryptography, the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is an encryption standard adopted by the U.S. government. The standard comprises three block ciphers, AES-128, AES-192 and AES-256, adopted from a larger collection originally published as Rijndael. Each of these ciphers has a 128-bit block size, with key sizes of 128, 192 and 256 bits, respectively.
Analytical engine: The analytical engine, an important step in the history of computers, was the design of a mechanical general-purpose computer by the British mathematician Charles Babbage. In its logical design the machine was essentially modern, anticipating the first completed general-purpose computers by about 100 years. It was first described in 1837. Babbage continued to refine the design until his death in 1871.
Extreme poverty: Extreme poverty is the most severe state of poverty. Many cannot meet basic needs for food, water, shelter, sanitation, and health care. To determine the affected population, the World Bank defines extreme poverty as living on less than USD $1.25 per day. The World Bank estimates that 1.4 billion people currently live under these conditions.
Geography of Antarctica: The geography of Antarctica is dominated by its south polar location and, thus, by ice. The Antarctic continent, located in the Earth's southern hemisphere, is centered asymmetrically around the South Pole and largely south of the Antarctic Circle. It is surrounded by the southern waters of the World Ocean - alternatively (depending on source), it is washed by the Southern (or Antarctic) Ocean or the southern Pacific, Atlantic, and Indian Oceans.
Argot: Argot is a secret language used by various groupsincluding, but not limited to, thieves and other criminalsto prevent outsiders from understanding their conversations. The term argot is also used to refer to the informal specialized vocabulary from a particular field of study, hobby, job, sport, etc. File:Wiktionary-logo-en. svg Look up argot in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Victor Hugo was one of the first to research argot extensively.
Economy of Antarctica: There is no economic activity in Antarctica at present, except for fishing off the coast and small-scale tourism, both based outside Antarctica. The Antarctican dollar, a souvenir item sold in the United States and Canada, is not legal tender.
Augustus: Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus (23 September 63 BC - 19 August AD 14) was the adopted son of Julius Caesar and the first ruler of the Roman Empire, which he ruled alone from January 27 BC until his death in AD 14. Born Gaius Octavius Thurinus, he was adopted posthumously by his great-uncle Gaius Julius Caesar in 44 BC, and between then and 31 BC was officially named Gaius Julius Caesar.
Transport in Antarctica: Transport in Antarctica has transformed from heroic explorers crossing the isolated remote area of Antarctica by foot to a more open area due to human technologies enabling more convenient and faster transport by land and predominantly air and water. Transportation technologies on a remote area like Antarctica need to be able to deal with extremely low temperatures and continuous winds to ensure the travelers' safety.
Alpha decay: Nuclear physics File:CNO Cycle.
List of Governors of Alabama: The Governor of Alabama is the head of the executive branch of Alabama's government and the commander-in-chief of the state's military forces. The governor has a duty to enforce state laws and the power to either approve or veto bills passed by the Alabama Legislature, to convene the legislature, and to grant pardons, except in cases of impeachment.
Antarctic Treaty System: The Antarctic Treaty and related agreements, collectively called the Antarctic Treaty System or ATS, regulate international relations with respect to Antarctica, Earth's only continent without a native human population. For the purposes of the treaty system, Antarctica is defined as all land and ice shelves south of 60 latitude.
Apocrypha: The term Apocrypha is used with various meanings, including "hidden", "esoteric", "spurious", "of questionable authenticity", and "Christian texts that are not canonical". The word is originally Greek () and means "those having been hidden away". The general term is usually applied to the books that the Christian Church considered useful but not divinely inspired.
Alfred Lawson: Alfred William Lawson (March 24, 1869 - November 29, 1954) was a professional baseball player, manager and league promoter from 1887 through 1916 and went on to play a pioneering role in the U.S. aircraft industry, publishing two early aviation trade journals. In 1904, he also wrote a novel, Born Again, clearly inspired by the popular Utopian fantasy Looking Backward by Edward Bellamy, an early harbinger of the metaphysical turn his career would take with the theory of Lawsonomy.
Abalone: Abalone (from Spanish Abul) are small to very large-sized edible sea snails, marine gastropod mollusks in the family Haliotidae and the genus Haliotis (syn. Sulculus). Family Haliotidae has no subfamilies. Common names for abalones also include ear-shells, sea-ears and Venus's-ears, as well as muttonfish or muttonshells in Australia, ormer in Jersey and Guernsey, perlemoen in South Africa and pua in New Zealand.
Abdominal surgery: The term abdominal surgery broadly covers surgical procedures that involve opening the abdomen. Surgery of each abdominal organ is dealt with separately in connection with the description of that organ Diseases affecting the abdominal cavity are dealt with generally under their own names.
Human abdomen: The human abdomen (also called the belly or midriff) is the part of the body between the pelvis and the thorax. Anatomically, the abdomen stretches from the thorax at the thoracic diaphragm to the pelvis at the pelvic brim. The pelvic brim stretches from the lumbosacral angle (the intervertebral disk between L5 and S1) to the pubic symphysis and is the edge of the pelvic inlet. The space above this inlet and under the thoracic diaphragm is termed the abdominal cavity.
Ames Iowa: Ames is a city located in the central part of the U.S. state of Iowa in Story County, and approximately 30 miles (48 km) north of Des Moines. It is the principal city of the Ames, Iowa Metropolitan Statistical Area which encompasses all of Story County, and which, when combined with the Boone, Iowa Micropolitan Statistical Area, comprises the larger Ames-Boone Combined Statistical Area. As of the 2000 Census, the city population was 50,731.
Abbess: An abbess is the female superior, or Mother Superior, of an abbey of nuns. In Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Coptic and Anglican abbeys, the mode of election, position, rights, and authority of an abbess correspond generally with those of an abbot. The office is elective, the choice being by the secret votes of the nuns belonging to the community.
Abduction: Abduction or abducted may refer to:
The Alan Parsons Project: The Alan Parsons Project were a British progressive rock band active between 1975 and 1990, founded by Eric Woolfson and Alan Parsons.
Abensberg: Abensberg is a town in Bavaria, Germany on the Abens, a tributary of the Danube, 18 m. S.W. of Regensburg, with which it is connected by rail and motorway (A93). It has a small spa and used to be a spa town, and its sulphur baths are resorted to for the cure of rheumatism and gout. The water is not used any more. Roman remains exist in the neighbourhood.
Arminianism: Arminianism is a school of soteriological thought within Protestant Christianity based on the theological ideas of the Dutch Reformed theologian Jacobus Arminius (1560-1609) and his historic followers, the Remonstrants. The doctrine's acceptance stretches through much of mainstream Christianity, including evangelical Protestantism. Arminianism holds to the following tenets: Humans are naturally unable to make any effort towards salvation. They possess free will to accept or reject salvation.
Abbey: An abbey (from Latin abbatia, derived from Syriac abba, "father"), is a Christian monastery or convent, under the government of an Abbot or an Abbess, who serves as the spiritual father or mother of the community. The term can also refer to an establishment which has long ceased to function as an abbey, but continues to carry the namein some cases for centuries (for example, see Westminster Abbey below).
Aromatic hydrocarbon: An aromatic hydrocarbon (abbreviated as AH) or arene (or sometimes aryl hydrocarbon) is a hydrocarbon with a conjugated cyclic molecular structure that is much more stable than the hypothetical localized structure. The term 'aromatic' was assigned before the physical mechanism determining aromaticity was discovered, and was derived from the fact that many of the compounds have a sweet scent.
Almost all: In mathematics, the phrase almost all has a number of specialised uses. "Almost all" is sometimes used synonymously with "all but finitely many" (formally, a cofinite set) or "all but a countable set" (formally, a cocountable set); see almost. When speaking about the reals, sometimes it means "all reals but a set of Lebesgue measure zero". In this sense almost all reals are not a member of the Cantor set even though the Cantor set is uncountable.
Annales School: The Annales School is a style of historiography developed by French historians in the 20th century. It is named after its French-language scholarly journal Annales d'histoire onomique et sociale, which remains the main source, along with many books and monographs.
Antimatter: In particle physics, antimatter is the extension of the concept of the antiparticle to matter, where antimatter is composed of antiparticles in the same way that normal matter is composed of particles. For example, an antielectron (a positron, an electron with a positive charge) and an antiproton (a proton with a negative charge) could form an antihydrogen atom in the same way that an electron and a proton form a normal matter hydrogen atom.
Park G ell: Park Gell is a garden complex with architectural elements situated on the hill of el Carmel in the Gria district of Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. It was designed by the Catalan architect Antoni Gaud and built in the years 1900 to 1914. It is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site "Works of Antoni Gaud".
Casa Mil: Casa Mil, better known as La Pedrera (Catalan for 'The Quarry'), is a building designed by the Catalan architect Antoni Gaud and built during the years 1906-1910, being considered officially completed in 1912. It is located at 92, Passeig de Gria (passeig is Catalan for promenade) in the Eixample district of Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. It was built for the married couple, Rosario Segimon and Pere Mil.
August 7: The Northern Hemisphere is considered to be halfway through its summer and the Southern Hemisphere half way through its winter on this day.
Arabian Prince: Arabian Prince is the stage name of Mik Lezan, a rapper and hip hop producer, best known for being an original member of the rap group, N.W.A.
Casa Batll: Casa Batll, is a building restored by Antoni Gaud and Josep Maria Jujol, built in the year 1877 and remodelled in the years 1904-1906; located at 43, Passeig de Gria, part of the Illa de la Discdia in the Eixample district of Barcelona, Spain. The local name for the building is Casa dels ossos (House of Bones), and indeed it does have a visceral, skeletal organic quality. It was originally designed for a middle-class family and situated in a prosperous district of Barcelona.
Antiparticle: Corresponding to most kinds of particles, there is an associated antiparticle with the same mass and opposite electric charge. For example, the antiparticle of the electron is the positively charged antielectron, or positron, which is produced naturally in certain types of radioactive decay. The laws of nature are very nearly symmetrical with respect to particles and antiparticles.
Apache Software Foundation: The Apache Software Foundation (ASF) is a non-profit corporation (classified as 501 in the United States) to support Apache software projects, including the Apache HTTP Server. The ASF was formed from the Apache Group and incorporated in Delaware, USA, in June 1999,
Associativity: In mathematics, associativity is a property of some binary operations. It means that, within an expression containing two or more occurrences in a row of the same associative operator, the order in which the operations are performed does not matter as long as the sequence of the operands is not changed. That is, rearranging the parentheses in such an expression will not change its value.
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990: The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) is a law that was enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1990. Its long title is "An Act to establish a clear and comprehensive prohibition of discrimination on the basis of disability. " It was signed into law on July 26, 1990, by President George H. W. Bush, and later amended with changes effective January 1, 2009. The ADA is a wide-ranging civil rights law that prohibits, under certain circumstances, discrimination based on disability.
Allosaurus: Allosaurus is a genus of large theropod dinosaur that lived 155 to 145 million years ago, in the late Jurassic period. The name Allosaurus means "different lizard" and is derived from the Greek /allos ("different, strange") and /sauros ("lizard"). The first remains that can definitely be ascribed to this genus were described in 1877 by Othniel Charles Marsh.
Apple I: The Apple I, also known as the Apple-1, was an early personal computer. They were designed and hand-built by Steve Wozniak. Wozniak's friend Steve Jobs had the idea of selling the computer. The Apple I was Apple's first product, demonstrated in April 1976 at the Homebrew Computer Club in Palo Alto, California. It went on sale in July 1976 at a price of $666.66, because Wozniak liked repeating digits and because they originally sold it to a local shop for $500 and added a one-third markup.
AK-47: The AK-47 is a selective fire, gas operated 7.62mm assault rifle, first developed in the Soviet Union by Mikhail Kalashnikov. The designation AK-47 stands for Kalashnikov automatic rifle, model of 1947 . It is therefore also known as Avtomat Kalashnikova (or simply 'AK'), Kalashnikov or Russian jargon Kalash). Design work on the AK began in 1944.
Atanasoff Berry Computer: The Atanasoff-Berry Computer (ABC) was the first electronic digital computing device. Conceived in 1937, the machine was not programmable, being designed only to solve systems of linear equations. It was successfully tested in 1942. However, its intermediate result storage mechanism, a paper card writer/reader, was unreliable, and when Atanasoff left Iowa State University for World War II assignments, work on the machine was discontinued.
Ancylopoda: Ancylopoda, is a group of browsing, herbivorous, mammals in the Perissodactyla that show long, curved and cleft claws. Morphological evidence indicates the Ancylopoda diverged from the tapirs, rhinoceroses and horses after the Brontotheria, however earlier authoritites such as Osborn sometimes considered the Ancylopoda to be outside Perissodactyla or, as was popular more recently, to be related to Brontotheria.
Anchor: An anchor is an object, often made out of metal, that is used to attach a ship to the bottom of a body of water at a specific point. There are two primary classes of anchorstemporary and permanent. A permanent anchor is often called a mooring, and is rarely moved; it is quite possible the vessel cannot hoist it aboard but must hire a service to move or maintain it. Vessels carry one or more temporary anchors which may be of different designs and weights.
Anbar town: Anbar () was a town in Iraq, at lat. 33 deg. 22' N. , long. 43 deg. 49' E, on the east bank of the Euphrates, just south of the Nahr 'Isa, or Sakhlawieh canal, the northernmost of the canals connecting that river with the Tigris. Anbar was originally called Firuz Shapur, or Perisapora and was founded circa 350 AD by Shapur II, Sassanid king of Persia. Perisapora was captured and destroyed by Emperor Julian in 363, but speedily rebuilt.
Apatosaurus: Apatosaurus, including the popular but obsolete synonym Brontosaurus, is a genus of sauropod dinosaur that lived about 150 million years ago, during the Jurassic Period. It was one of the largest land animals that ever existed, with an average length of 23 m (75 ft) and a mass of at least 23 metric tons (25 short tons).
Andes: The Andes are the world's longest continental mountain range. They lie as a continuous chain of highland along the western coast of South America. The range is over 7,000 km (4,300 mi) long, 200 km (120 mi) to 700 km (430 mi) wide (widest between 18 to 20 latitude), and of an average height of about 4,000 m (13,000 ft).
Anagram: An anagram is a type of word play, the result of rearranging the letters of a word or phrase to produce a new word or phrase, using all the original letters exactly once; e.g. , orchestra = carthorse, A decimal point = I'm a dot in place. Someone who creates anagrams is called an anagrammatist. The original word or phrase is known as the subject of the anagram. Any word or phrase that exactly reproduces the letters in another order is an anagram.
Anazarbus: Anazarbus in Ancient Cilicia (Adana) (med. Ain Zarba; mod. Anavarza) was an ancient Cilician city, situated in Anatolia in modern Turkey, in the present kurova about 10 miles west of the main stream of the present Ceyhan River and near its tributary the Sempas Su. A lofty isolated ridge formed its acropolis.
Andr -Marie Amp re: Andr-Marie Ampe FRS (20 January 1775 - 10 June 1836) was a French physicist and mathematician who is generally regarded as one of the main discoverers of electromagnetism. The SI unit of measurement of electric current, the ampere, is named after him.
Anadyr River: Anadyr is a river in the far northeast Siberia which flows into Anadyr Bay of the Bering Sea and drains much of the interior of Chukotka Autonomous Okrug. Its basin corresponds to the Anadyrsky District of Chukotka. It is 1,146 km long and has a basin of 191,000 square km. It is frozen from October to late May and has a maximum flow in June with the snowmelt. It is navigable in small boats for about 570 km to near Markvovo.
Ammonia: Ammonia is a compound of nitrogen and hydrogen with the formula NH3. It is normally encountered as a gas with a characteristic pungent odour. Ammonia contributes significantly to the nutritional needs of terrestrial organisms by serving as a precursor to food and fertilizers. Ammonia, either directly or indirectly, is also a building block for the synthesis of many pharmaceuticals. Although in wide use, ammonia is both caustic and hazardous.
Albertosaurus: Albertosaurus (meaning "Alberta lizard") is a genus of tyrannosaurid theropod dinosaur that lived in western North America during the Late Cretaceous Period, more than 70 million years ago. The type species, A. sarcophagus, was restricted in range to the modern-day Canadian province of Alberta, after which the genus is named. Scientists disagree on the content of the genus, with some recognizing Gorgosaurus libratus as a second species.
Amethyst: Amethyst is a violet variety of quartz often used in jewelry. The name comes from the Ancient Greek a- ("not") and methustos ("intoxicated"), a reference to the belief that the stone protected its owner from drunkenness; the ancient Greeks and Romans wore amethyst and made drinking vessels of it in the belief that it would prevent intoxication.
Ambrosia: In ancient Greek mythology, ambrosia is sometimes the food, sometimes the drink, of the gods, often depicted as conferring ageless immortality upon whoever consumes it. It was brought to the gods in Olympus by doves, so may have been thought of in the Homeric tradition as a kind of divine exhalation of the Earth.
Assembly language: Assembly languages are a type of low-level languages for programming computers, microprocessors, microcontrollers, and other (usually) integrated circuits. They implement a symbolic representation of the numeric machine codes and other constants needed to program a particular CPU architecture. This representation is usually defined by the hardware manufacturer, and is based on abbreviations that help the programmer remember individual instructions, registers, etc.
Ambrose: Aurelius Ambrosius, better known in English as Ambrose (c. between 337 and 340 - 4 April 397), was a bishop of Milan who became one of the most influential ecclesiastical figures of the fourth century. He is counted as one of the four original doctors of the Church.
Amber: Amber (or, technically, resinite) is fossilized tree resin, which has been appreciated for its color and natural beauty since Neolithic times. Good quality amber is used for the manufacture of ornamental objects and jewelry. There are five classes of amber, defined on the basis of their chemical constituents. Because it originates as a soft, sticky tree resin, amber sometimes includes animal and plant material as inclusions.
Ambracia: Ambracia, occasionally Ampracia, was an ancient Corinthian colony, situated about 7 miles from the Ambracian Gulf in Greece, on a bend of the navigable river Arachthos (or Aratthus), in the midst of a fertile wooded plain.
Amalaric: Amalaric, or in Spanish and Portuguese, Amalarico, (502 - 531) was a son of king Alaric II and of Theodegotho, daughter of Theodoric the Great and his first wife. Amalaric was himself king of the Visigoths from 526 till he was assassinated in 531. He was a child when his father fell in battle against Clovis I, king of the Franks, in 507. Gesalec was chosen king and the child Amalaric was carried for safety into Hispania.
Alphorn: The alphorn or alpenhorn or alpine horn is a labrophone, consisting of a natural wooden horn of conical bore, having a wooden cup-shaped mouthpiece, used by mountain dwellers in Switzerland and elsewhere. Similar wooden horns were used for communication in most mountainous regions of Europe, from French Switzerland to the Carpathians.
Army: An army (from Latin armata "armed " via Old French arm, "armed", in the broadest sense, is the land-based Military of a nation. It may also include other branches of the military such as the air force via means of aviation corps. Within a national military force, the word Army may also mean a field army, which is an operational formation, usually made up of one or more corps.
Amos Bronson Alcott: Amos Bronson Alcott (November 29, 1799 - March 4, 1888) was an American teacher, writer and philosopher who left a legacy of forward-thinking social ideas.
Alder: Alder is the common name of a genus of flowering plants (Alnus) belonging to the birch family. The genus comprises about 30 species of monoecious trees and shrubs, few reaching large size, distributed throughout the North Temperate Zone and in the Americas also along the Andes southwards to Argentina.
Apostle: An apostle is a messenger and ambassador.
Arachnophobia: Arachnophobia or arachnephobia is a specific phobia, the irrational fear of spiders. It is a manifestation of zoophobia, among the most common of all phobias. The reactions of arachnophobics often seem irrational to others (and sometimes to the sufferers themselves). People with arachnophobia tend to feel uneasy in any area they believe could harbor spiders or that has visible signs of their presence, such as webs.
Alabaster: Alabaster is a name applied to varieties of two distinct minerals: gypsum and calcite (a carbonate of calcium). The former is the alabaster of the present day; generally, the latter is the alabaster of the ancients. The two kinds are distinguished from one another readily, because of differences in their relative hardness.
Dasyproctidae: The Dasyproctidae are a family of large South American rodents, comprising the agoutis and acouchis. Their fur is a reddish or dark colour above, with a paler underside. They are herbivorous, often feeding on ripe fruit that falls from trees. They live in burrows, and, like squirrels, will bury some of their food for later use.
Algol: Algol ( Per / Beta Persei), known colloquially as the Demon Star, is a bright star in the constellation Perseus. It is one of the best known eclipsing binaries, the first such star to be discovered, and also one of the first variable stars to be discovered. Algol is actually a three-star system (Beta Persei A, B, and C) in which the large and bright primary Beta Persei A is regularly eclipsed by the dimmer Beta Persei B.
Ahab: Ahab or Ach'av or Achab in Douay-Rheims was king of Israel and the son and successor of Omri. Ahab became king of Israel in the thirty-eighth year of Asa, king of Judah, and reigned for twenty-two years. William F. Albright dated his reign to 869 - 850 BC, while E. R. Thiele offered the dates 874 - 853 BC.
Amazing Grace: "Amazing Grace" is a Christian hymn written by English poet and clergyman John Newton (1725-1807) and published in 1779. With a message that forgiveness and redemption is possible regardless of the sins people commit and that the soul can be delivered from despair through the mercy of God, "Amazing Grace" is one of the most recognizable songs in the English-speaking world. Newton wrote the words from personal experience.
AV: AV, Av, aV, av, A/V, or A.V. may mean:
AOL: AOL Inc. , formerly known as America Online is an American global Internet services and media company. The company was based in Northern Virginia from its founding until 2007. It is currently headquartered at 770 Broadway in Manhattan, New York City. Founded in 1983 as Quantum Computer Services, it has franchised its services to companies in several nations around the world or set up international versions of its services.
Anno Domini: Anno Domini (abbreviated as AD or A.D. , sometimes found in the irregular form Anno Domine) and Before Christ (abbreviated as BC or B.C. ) are designations used to label years in the Julian and Gregorian calendars. The calendar era to which they refer is based on the traditionally reckoned year of the conception or birth of Jesus, with AD denoting years after the start of this epoch, and BC denoting years before the start of this epoch.
Alcuin: Alcuin of York or Ealhwine, nicknamed Albinus or Flaccus (730s or 740s - May 19, 804) was a scholar, ecclesiastic, poet and teacher from York, Northumbria. He was born around 735 and became the student of Ecgbert at York. At the invitation of Charlemagne, he became a leading scholar and teacher at the Carolingian court, where he remained a figure at court in the 780s and 790s. He was responsible for inventing lower case letters.
Amine: Amines are organic compounds and functional groups that contain a basic nitrogen atom with a lone pair. Amines are derivatives of ammonia, where in one or more hydrogen atoms have been replaced by a substituent such as an alkyl or aryl group. Important amines include amino acids, biogenic amines, trimethylamine, and aniline; see for a list of amines. Inorganic derivatives of ammonia are also called amines, such as chloramine (NClH2).
Alligatoridae: Alligators and caimans are archosaurs, species of crocodilians and form the family Alligatoridae (sometimes regarded instead as the subfamily Alligatorinae).
Angilbert: Saint Angilbert (died 18 February 814) was a Frank who served Charlemagne as a diplomat, abbot, poet and semi-son-in-law. He was of noble Frankish parentage, and educated at the palace school in Aquae Grani under Alcuin. He is venerated as a saint, on the day of his death18 February. When Charlemagne sent his young son Pepin to Italy as King of the Lombards Angilbert went along as primicerius palatii, a high administrator of the satellite court.
Absolute zero: Absolute zero is the theoretical temperature at which entropy would reach its minimum value. The laws of thermodynamics state that absolute zero cannot be reached because this would require a thermodynamic system to be fully removed from the rest of the universe. A system at absolute zero would still possess quantum mechanical zero-point energy. While molecular motion would not cease entirely at absolute zero, the system would not have enough energy for transference to other systems.
Adiabatic process: In thermodynamics, an adiabatic process or an isocaloric process is a thermodynamic process in which no heat is transferred to or from the working fluid. The term "adiabatic" literally means impassable, coming from the Greek roots - ("not"), - ("through"), and ("to pass"); this etymology corresponds here to an absence of heat transfer. Conversely, a process that involves heat transfer (addition or loss of heat to the surroundings) is generally called diabatic.
Amide: In chemistry, an amide is usually an organic compound that contains the functional group consisting of an acyl group (R-C=O) linked to a nitrogen atom. The term refers both to a class of compounds and a functional group within those compounds. The term amide also refers to deprotonated form of ammonia (NH3) or an amine, often represented as anions R2N. The remainder of this article is about the carbonyl-nitrogen sense of amide.
Animism: Animism is a philosophical, religious or spiritual idea that souls or spirits exist not only in humans but also in other animals, plants, rocks, natural phenomena such as thunder, geographic features such as mountains or rivers, or other entities of the natural environment. Animism may further attribute souls to abstract concepts such as words, true names or metaphors in mythology.
Aar: The Aar, a tributary of the Rhine, is the longest river that both rises and ends entirely within Switzerland. Its total length from its source to its junction with the Rhine comprises about 295 km (183 miles), during which distance it descends 1,565 m (5,135 ft), draining an area of 17,779 km (6,865 sq mi).
Antonio Vivaldi: Antonio Lucio Vivaldi (March 4, 1678 - July 28, 1741), nicknamed il Prete Rosso ("The Red Priest"), was a Venetian Baroque composer, priest, and famous virtuoso violinist. He was born and raised in the Republic of Venice. The Four Seasons, a popular series of four violin concerti, is his best-known work. His other compositions include over 500 instrumental concertos, sacred choral works and over 40 operas.
Abraxas: The word Abrasax (Gk. , which is far more common in the sources than the variant form Abraxas, ) was a word of mystic meaning in the system of the Gnostic Basilides, being there applied to the Great Archon (Gk. , megas archn), the princeps of the 365 spheres (Gk. , ouranoi). In Gnostic cosmology, the 7 letters spelling its name represent each of the 7 classic planetsSun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn.
Abbotsford House: Abbotsford is a historic house in the region of the Scottish Borders in the south of Scotland, near Galashiels, on the south bank of the River Tweed. It was formerly the residence of historical novelist and poet, Walter Scott. It is a Category A listed building. The nucleus of the estate was a small farm of 100 acres (0.4 km), called Cartleyhole, nicknamed Clarty (i.e. , muddy) Hole, and was bought by Scott on the lapse of his lease (1811) of the neighbouring house of Ashestiel.
Absalom: According to the Bible, Absalom or Avshalom was the third son of David, King of Israel with Maachah, daughter of Talmai, King of Geshur. 2 Samuel 14:25 describes him as the most handsome man in the kingdom. Absalom eventually rebelled against his father and was killed during the Battle of Ephraim Wood.
Abydos Egypt: Abydos is the common English name of one of the most ancient cities of Upper Egypt, and also of the eight Upper Nome of which it was the capital city. It is located about 11 kilometres (6.8 mi) west of the Nile at latitude 26 10' N, near the modern Egyptian towns of el-'Araba el Madfuna and al-Balyana. The city was called Abdju in the ancient Egyptian language meaning "the hill of the symbol or reliquary", a reference to a reliquary in which the sacred head of Osiris was preserved.
Abraham: Abraham is the founding patriarch of the Israelites, Ishmaelites, Edomites, and the Midianites and kindred peoples, according to the book of Genesis. Judaism, Christianity, and Islam are sometimes referred to as the "Abrahamic religions" because of the progenitor role that Abraham plays in their holy books. In both the Jewish tradition and the Quran, he is referred to as "our Father". Jews, Christians, and Muslims consider him father of the people of Israel.
Abydos Hellespont: Abydos, an ancient city of Mysia, in Asia Minor, situated at Nara Burnu or Nagara Point on the best harbor on the Asiatic shore of the Hellespont. Across Abydos lies Sestus on the European side marking the shortest point in the Dardanelles, scarcely a mile broad. The strategic site has been a prohibited zone in the twentieth century. Hero and Leander's story was been near Abydos. Abydos was first mentioned in the catalogue of Trojan allies.
Acacia: Acacia is a genus of shrubs and trees belonging to the subfamily Mimosoideae of the family Fabaceae, first described in Africa by the Swedish botanist Carl Linnaeus in 1773. The plants tend to be thorny and pod-bearing, with sap and leaves typically bearing large amounts of tannins. The generic name derives from (akakia), the name given by early Greek botanist-physician Pedanius Dioscorides (ca. 40-90) to the medicinal tree A. nilotica in his book Materia Medica.
Acapulco: Acapulco (officially known as Acapulco de Juez) is a city, municipality and major sea port in the state of Guerrero on the Pacific coast of Mexico, 300 kilometres (190 mi) southwest from Mexico City. The city is best known as one of Mexicos oldest and most well-known beach resorts, which came into prominence by the 1950s as a getaway for Hollywood stars and millionaires. Acapulco is still famous for its nightlife and still attracts many vacationers, although most are now from Mexico itself.
APL programming language: APL (named after the book A Programming Language) is an interactive array-oriented language and integrated development environment which is available from a number of commercial and non-commercial vendors and for most computer platforms. It is based on a mathematical notation developed by Kenneth E. Iverson.
Alan Kay: Alan Curtis Kay (born May 17, 1940) is an American computer scientist, known for his early pioneering work on object-oriented programming and windowing graphical user interface design, and for coining the phrase, "The best way to predict the future is to invent it. " He is the president of the Viewpoints Research Institute, and an Adjunct Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Los Angeles. He is also on the advisory board of TTI/Vanguard.
ALGOL: ALGOL (short for ALGOrithmic Language) is a family of imperative computer programming languages originally developed in the mid 1950s which greatly influenced many other languages and became the de facto way algorithms were described in textbooks and academic works for almost the next 30 years. It was designed to avoid some of the perceived problems with FORTRAN and eventually gave rise to many other programming languages, including BCPL, B, Pascal, Simula, C, and many others.
Asgard: In Norse mythology, Asgard is one of the Nine Worlds and is the country or capital city of the Norse Gods surrounded by an incomplete wall attributed to a Hrimthurs riding the stallion Svadilfari, according to Gylfaginning. Valhalla is located within Asgard. Odin and his wife, Frigg are the rulers of Asgard.
AWK: AWK is a programming language that is designed for processing text-based data, either in files or data streams, and was created at Bell Labs in the 1970s.
Apollo program: The Apollo program was a NASA spaceflight endeavor that landed the first humans on Earth's moon. Conceived during the presidency of Dwight D. Eisenhower, Apollo began in earnest after US President John F. Kennedy announced his support for a manned moon landing on May 25, 1961, as part of a special address to a joint session of Congress declaring a national goal of "landing a man on the Moon" by the end of the decade.
Assault: Assault is a crime or tort of violence against another person. In some jurisdictions, including Australia and New Zealand, assault refers to an act that causes another to apprehend immediate and personal violence, while in other jurisdictions, such as the United States, assault may refer only to the threat of violence caused by an immediate show of force. Assault is often defined to include not only violence, but any intentional physical contact with another person without their consent.
 lfheimr: Alfheim is one of the Nine Worlds and home of the Light Elves in Norse mythology and appears also in northern English ballads under the form Elphame (Elfhame, Elfame) as a fairyland, sometimes modernized as Elfland (Elfinland, Elvenland).
Alain de Lille: Alain de Lille (or Alanus ab Insulis) (c. 1128-1202), French theologian and poet, was born, probably in Lille, some years before 1128.
Alabama River: The Alabama River, in the U.S. state of Alabama, is formed by the Tallapoosa and Coosa rivers, which unite about six miles above Montgomery. The river flows west to Selma, then southwest until, about 45 miles (72 km) from Mobile, it unites with the Tombigbee, forming the Mobile and Tensaw rivers, which discharge into Mobile Bay. The course of the Alabama is very meandering. Its width varies from 50 to 200 yards, and its depth from 3 to 40 feet.
American Stock Exchange: NYSE Amex Equities, formerly known as the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) is an American stock exchange situated in New York. AMEX was a mutual organization, owned by its members. Until 1953 it was known as the New York Curb Exchange. On January 17, 2008 NYSE Euronext announced it would acquire the American Stock Exchange for $260 million in stock. On October 1, 2008, NYSE Euronext completed acquisition of the American Stock Exchange.
August 12: It is the peak of the Perseid meteor shower. It is also known as the "Glorious Twelfth" in the UK, as it marks the traditional start of the grouse shooting season.
Alamanni: The Alamanni, Allemanni, or Alemanni were originally an alliance of Germanic tribes located around the upper Rhine river. One of the earliest references to them is the cognomen Alamannicus assumed by Roman Emperor Caracalla, who ruled the Roman Empire from 211-17 and claimed thereby to be their defeater. The nature of this alliance and their previous tribal affiliations remain uncertain. The alliance was aggressive in nature, attacking the Roman province of Germania Superior whenever it could.
Alfred Russel Wallace: Alfred Russel Wallace, OM, FRS (8 January 1823 - 7 November 1913) was a British naturalist, explorer, geographer, anthropologist and biologist. He is best known for independently proposing a theory of evolution due to natural selection that prompted Charles Darwin to publish his own theory.
Australian Labor Party: The Australian Labor Party is an Australian political party. Known as Labor, or the ALP for short, the party is the current governing party of Australia, since the 2007 federal election. Kevin Rudd is the party's federal parliamentary leader and Prime Minister of Australia.
Dodo Alice's Adventures in Wonderland: The Dodo is a fictional character appearing in Chapters 2 and 3 of the book Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll (Charles Lutwidge Dodgson). The Dodo is a caricature of the author. A popular but unsubstantiated belief is that Dodgson chose the particular animal to represent himself because of his stammer, and thus would accidentally introduce himself as "Do-do-dodgson.
Lory disambiguation: Lory may refer to: Lory, one of a number parrot species belonging the Loriinae subfamily comprising lories and lorikeets Lory (Alice's Adventures in Wonderland), a parrot character in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll
August 17: 986 - A army is destroyed in the pass of Trajan's Gate by the Bulgarians under the Comitopuli Samuel and Aron. The Byzantine emperor Basil II narrowly escaped. 1807 - Robert Fulton's first American steamboat leaves New York City for Albany, New York on the Hudson River, inaugurating the first commercial steamboat service in the world. 1862 - Indian Wars: The Lakota Dakota War of 1862 begins in Minnesota as Lakota warriors attack white settlements along the Minnesota River.
Eaglet Alice's Adventures in Wonderland: The Eaglet is a character appearing in Chapter 2 and 3 of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll, a reference to Edith Liddell, Alice's sister. In this passage Lewis Carroll incorporated references to everyone present on the original boating expedition of July 4, 1862 during which Alice's Adventures were first told, with Alice as herself, and the others represented by birds: the Lory was Lorina Liddell, the Eaglet was Edith Liddell, the Dodo was Lewis Carroll, and the Duck was Rev.
Ask and Embla: Ask and Embla, according to Norse mythology, were the first two humans created by the gods. The pair are attested in both the Poetic Edda, compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and the Prose Edda, written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson. In both sources, three gods, one of which is Odin, find Ask and Embla and bestow upon them various corporeal and spiritual gifts.
Albert Alcibiades Margrave of Brandenburg-Kulmbach: Albert Alcibiades was a Margrave of Brandenburg-Kulmbach, also known as Brandenburg-Bayreuth. Because of his bellicose nature Albert received the cognomen Alcibiades after his death; during his lifetime Albert was known as Bellator (the Warlike). He was a member of the Franconian branch of the House of Hohenzollern.
Albert the Bear: Albert the Bear was the first Margrave of Brandenburg (as Albert I) from 1157 to his death and was briefly Duke of Saxony between 1138 and 1142.
Albert: Albert may refer to: Albert (surname), a family name (and people with that name) Albert (given name) Albertet, an Occitan diminutive of Albert Fictional characters: Albert (Discworld), a character in Terry Pratchett's Discworld series Albert, supporting character in Josie Albert Heinrich a.k.a.
Albert of Mainz: Cardinal Albert of Hohenzollern (June 28, 1490 - September 24, 1545) was Elector and Archbishop of Mainz from 1514 to 1545, and Archbishop of Magdeburg from 1513 to 1545.
Albert Duke of Prussia: Albert was the 37th Grand Master of the Teutonic Knights and, after converting to Lutheranism, the first duke of the Duchy of Prussia, which was the first state to adopt the Lutheran faith and Protestantism as the official state religion. Albert proved instrumental in the political spread of Protestantism in its early stage.
Agate: Agate is a microcrystalline variety of quartz, chiefly chalcedony, characterised by its fineness of grain and brightness of color. Although agates may be found in various kinds of rock, they are classically associated with volcanic rocks but can be common in certain metamorphic rocks. Colorful agates and other chalcedonies were obtained over 3,000 years ago from the Achates River, now called Dirillo, in Sicily.
Abner: In the Book of Samuel, Abner (Biblical Hebrew for "father of light"), is first cousin to Saul and commander-in-chief of his army .
Ahmed I: Ahmed I Bakhti (April 18, 1590 - November 22, 1617) was the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1603 until his death in 1617.
Aspirin: Aspirin, also known as acetylsalicylic acid (abbreviated ASA), is a salicylate drug, often used as an analgesic to relieve minor aches and pains, as an antipyretic to reduce fever, and as an anti-inflammatory medication. Aspirin also has an antiplatelet effect by inhibiting the production of thromboxane, which under normal circumstances binds platelet molecules together to create a patch over damage of the walls within blood vessels.
Ahmed II: Ahmed II Khan Ghazi (February 25, 1643 - February 6, 1695) was the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1691 to 1695. Ahmed II was born at Topkapi Palace, Istanbul, the son of Sultan Ibrahim I (1640-48) by Valide Sultan Khadija Muazzez, and succeeded his brother Suleiman II (1687-91) in 1691. Ahmed II's best known act was to confirm Mustafa Krl as grand vizier.
Aachen: Aachen is a historic spa city in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It was a favoured residence of Charlemagne, and the place of coronation of the Kings of Germany. It is the westernmost city of Germany, located along its borders with Belgium and the Netherlands, 65 km (40 mi) west of Cologne.
Ahmed III: Ahmed III (December 30/31, 1673 - July 1, 1736) was Sultan of the Ottoman Empire and a son of Sultan Mehmed IV (1648-87). His mother was Valide Sultan Emetullah Rabia Gln Sultan, originally named Evmania, who was an ethnic Greek. He was born at Hajioglupazari, in Dobruja. He succeeded to the throne in 1703 on the abdication of his brother Mustafa II (1695-1703).
Ainu people: The Ainu (also called Ezo in historical texts) are an indigenous ethnic group of Japan. Historically they spoke the Ainu language and related varieties and lived in Hokkaid, the Kuril Islands, and much of Sakhalin. Most of those who identify themselves as Ainu still live in this same region, though the exact number of living Ainu is unknown. This is due to ethnic issues in Japan resulting in those with Ainu backgrounds hiding their identities and confusion over mixed heritages.
Acropolis: Acropolis means "highest city" in Greek, literally city on the extremity (akros, akron, edge, extremity + polis, city, pl. acropoleis). For purposes of defense, early people naturally chose elevated ground to build a new settlement, frequently a hill with precipitous sides. In many parts of the world, these early citadels became the nuclei of large cities, which grew up on the surrounding lower ground, such as modern Rome.
Adder: Adder may refer to: Snakes: Any venomous snake Vipera berus, a.k.a. the common European adder, a venomous viper found in Europe and northern Asia Agkistrodon contortrix mokasen, a.k.a. the northern copperhead, a venomous viper found in the eastern United States Acanthophis sp. , a.k.a. death adders, a genus of venomous elapids found in South East Asia and Australia Heterodon sp. , a.k.a.
April 13: It is also the Ides (middle day) of April.
Aeneas: In Greco-Roman mythology, Aeneas (in English) was a Trojan hero, the son of prince Anchises and the goddess Aphrodite. His father was also the second cousin of King Priam of Troy. The journey of Aeneas from Troy, (led by Aphrodite, his mother) which led to the founding of the city Rome, is recounted in Virgil's Aeneid. He is considered an important figure in Greek and Roman legend and history.
Amaranth: "Amarantus" redirects here. For the ancient Greek writer, see Amarantus of Alexandria. For other uses, see Amaranth. Amaranthus, collectively known as amaranth, is a cosmopolitan genus of herbs. Approximately 60 species are recognized, with inflorescences and foliage ranging from purple and red to gold. Members of this genus share many characteristics and uses with members of the closely related genus Celosia.
Acupuncture: Acupuncture is the procedure of inserting and manipulating needles into various points on the body to relieve pain or for therapeutic purposes. The word acupuncture comes from the Latin acus, "needle", and pungere, "to prick". In Standard Chinese, acupuncture is called (zhnbin), or a related word, (zhnji), which refers to acupuncture together with moxibustion. According to traditional Chinese medicine, acupuncture points are situated on meridians along which qi, flows.
Agamemnon: In Greek mythology, Agamemnon is the son of King Atreus of Mycenae and Queen Aerope; the brother of Menelaus and the husband of Clytemnestra; different mythological versions make him the king either of Mycenae or of Argos. When Helen, the wife of Menelaus, was abducted by Paris of Troy, Agamemnon was the commander of the Achaeans in the ensuing Trojan War. Upon his return from Troy he was murdered (according to the fullest version of the oldest surviving account, Odyssey Book 11, l.409f.
Agapanthus africanus: Agapanthus africanus (African lily; syn. Agapanthus umbellatus) is a member of the family Alliaceae and a native of the Cape of Good Hope in South Africa. It is sometimes know as plum plum by native South Africans. It has a short stem bearing a tuft of long, narrow, arching leaves 10-35 cm long and 1-2 cm broad, and a central flower stalk 25-60 cm tall, ending in an umbel of 20-30 white, or bright blue, funnel-shaped flowers, each flower 2.5-5 cm diameter.
Aga Khan III: Sultan Mahommed Shah, Aga Khan III, GCSI, GCMG, GCIE, GCVO, PC (November 2, 1877 - July 11, 1957) was the 48th Imam of the Shia Ismaili Muslims. He was one of the founders and the first president of the All-India Muslim League, and served as President of the League of Nations from 1937-38.
Agathon: Agathon (ca. 448-400 BC) was an Athenian tragic poet whose works, up to the present moment, have been lost. He is best known for his appearance in Plato's Symposium, which describes the banquet given to celebrate his obtaining a prize for his first tragedy at the Lenaia in (416). He is also a prominent character in Aristophanes' comedy the Thesmophoriazusae. Agathon was the life-long companion of Pausanias, with whom he appears in both the Symposium and in Plato's Protagoras.
Aga Khan I: Aga Khan I (Persian: ; gh Khn-i Awwal or, less commonly but more correctly, was the title accorded to Hasan Ali Shah, the governor of Kirman, 46th Imam of the Nizari Ismaili Muslims, and prominent Muslim leader in Iran and later in the Indian Subcontinent.
Agis: Agis may refer to: Agis I, a Spartan king Agis II, a Spartan king Agis III, a Spartan king Agis IV, a Spartan king; Plutarch included a chapter on him in his Parallel Lives Agis (Paeonian), a Paionian king of the pre-Hellenistic era Agis of Argos, an ancient Greek poet AGIS (Apex Global Internet Services), a former Internet service provider Maurice Agis, a British sculptor and artist
Agesilaus II: Agesilaus II, or Agesilaos II (444 BC - 360 BC) was a king of Sparta, of the Eurypontid dynasty, ruling from approximately 400 BC to 360 BC, during most of which time he was, in Plutarch's words, "as good as thought commander and king of all Greece," and was for the whole of it greatly identified with his country's deeds and fortunes.
Agnes of Merania: Agnes Maria of Andechs-Merania (died 1201), queen of France, was the daughter of Bertold IV (died 1204), who was Count of Andechs, a castle and territory near Ammersee, Bavaria and from 1183 duke of Merania. Her mother was Agnes of Rochlitz. She is called Marie by some of the French chroniclers. In June 1196 Agnes married Philip II of France, who had repudiated his second wife Ingeborg of Denmark in 1193.
Antonio Agliardi: Antonio Agliardi (September 4, 1832 - May 1, 1915) was a Roman Catholic Cardinal, archbishop, and papal diplomat. He was born at Cologno, Italy. He studied theology and canon law, and after acting as parish priest in his native diocese for twelve years was sent by the pope to Canada as a bishop's chaplain. On his return he was appointed secretary to the Congregation of the Propaganda.
Agni: Agni is a Hindu deity, one of the most important of the Vedic gods. He is the god of fire and the acceptor of sacrifices. The sacrifices made to Agni go to the deities because Agni is a messenger from and to the other gods. He is ever-young, because the fire is re-lit every day, and also immortal. Agni, the Vedic god of fire who presides over the earth, has made the transition into the Hindu pantheon of gods, without losing his importance.
Agrippina the Elder: Julia Vipsania Agrippina or most commonly known as Agrippina the Elder or Agrippina Major was the distinguished and prominent Roman granddaughter of Augustus. She lived between the 1st century BC and 1st century AD. Agrippina was the wife of the general, politician Germanicus and a relative to the first Roman Emperors.
Agrippina the Younger: Julia Agrippina (from AD 50, Julia Augusta Agrippina), also known as Agrippina the Younger and Agrippina Minor (7 November AD 15-19/23 March AD 59) was a Roman empress. She was a great-granddaughter of the emperor Augustus, great-niece and adoptive granddaughter of the emperor Tiberius, sister to the emperor Caligula, niece and fourth wife of the emperor Claudius, and mother of the emperor Nero.
Ahenobarbus: Ahenobarbus was the name of a plebeian family of the Domitia gens in the late Republic and early Principate of ancient Rome. The name means "red-beard" (literally, "bronze-beard") in Latin and, according to legend, Castor and Pollux announced to one of their ancestors the victory of the Romans over the Latins at the battle of Lake Regillus, and, to confirm the truth of what they said, that they stroked his black hair and beard, which immediately became red.
Ahmad Shah Durrani: Ahmad Shh Durrn (c.1722-1773), also known as Ahmad Shh Abdl and born as Ahmad Khn Abdl, was the founder of the Durrani Empire and is regarded by many to be the founder of modern Afghanistan. After the death of Nader Shah Afshar in June 1747, Ahmad Shah Abdali became the Amir of Khorasan. Rallying Pashtun tribes and allies, he pushed east towards the Punjab in Mughal India and west towards the disintegrating Afsharid Empire.
Ailanthus: Ailanthus (derived from ailanto, an Ambonese word probably meaning "tree of the gods" or "tree of heaven") is a genus of trees belonging to the family Simaroubaceae, in the order Sapindales. The genus is native from east Asia south to northern Australasia.
Arthur Aikin: Arthur Aikin (19 May 1773 - 15 April 1854), English chemist, mineralogist and scientific writer, was born in Warrington, Lancashire into a distinguished literary family of prominent Unitarians. He was born into a family of writers, the most well known of whom was his paternal aunt, Anna Letitia Barbauld, a woman of letters who wrote poetry and essays as well as early children's literature. His father, Dr. John Aikin, was a medical doctor, historian, and author.
Alexander Emanuel Agassiz: Alexander Emanuel Agassiz (December 17, 1835 - March 27, 1910), son of Louis Agassiz and stepson of Elizabeth Cabot Agassiz, was an American scientist and engineer.
Aimoin: Aimoin (c. 960-c. 1010), French chronicler, was born at Villefranche-de-Longchat about 960, and in early life entered the monastery of Fleury, where he became a monk and passed the greater part of his life. His chief work is a Historia Francorum, or Libri v de Gestis Francorum, which deals with the history of the Franks from the earliest times to 653, and was continued by other writers until the middle of the twelfth century.
Akkadian Empire: The Akkadian Empire (2334 BC to 2083 BC) was an empire centered in the city of Akkad and its surrounding region (Akkadian URU Akkad KI) in Ancient Iraq, (Mesopotamia).
Ajax the Lesser: Ajax was a Greek mythological hero, son of Oileus, the king of Locris. He was called the "lesser" or "Locrian" Ajax, to distinguish him from Ajax the Great, son of Telamon. He was the leader of the Locrian contingent during the Trojan War. He is a significant figure in Homer's Iliad and is also mentioned in the Odyssey. In Etruscan legend, he was known as Aivas Vilates.
Ajax: Ajax may refer to:
Alaric II: Alaric II, also known as Alarik, Alarich, and Alarico in Spanish and Portuguese or Alaricus in Latin (d. 507) succeeded his father Euric in 485 and became eighth king of the Visigoths. He established his capital at Aire-sur-l'Adour (Vicus Julii). His dominions included not only the whole of Hispania except its north-western corner but also Gallia Aquitania and the greater part of an as-yet undivided Gallia Narbonensis.
Alaric I: Alaric I (Alareiks in the original Gothic; Alarik or Alarich in modern Germanic languages; Alaricus in Latin; and Alarico in Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish), was likely born about 370 on an island named Peuce (the Fir) at the mouth of the Danube in present day Romania. He was king of the Visigoths from 395-410 and the first Germanic leader to take the city of Rome.
American Chinese cuisine: File:ChineseDishLogo.
Ajax mythology: "Aias" redirects here. For other uses of this name, see AIAS and Ajax. Ajax or Aias was a mythological Greek hero, the son of Telamon and Periboea and king of Salamis. He plays an important role in Homer's Iliad and in the Epic Cycle, a series of epic poems about the Trojan War. To distinguish him from Ajax, son of Oileus, he is called "Telamonian Ajax," "Greater Ajax," or "Ajax the Great". In Etruscan mythology, he is known as Aivas Tlamunus.
Albertus Magnus: Saint Albertus Magnus, O.P. (1193/1206 - November 15, 1280), also known as Saint Albert the Great and Albert of Cologne, was a Dominican friar and bishop who achieved fame for his comprehensive knowledge of and advocacy for the peaceful coexistence of science and religion. He is considered to be the greatest German philosopher and theologian of the Middle Ages. He was the first among medieval scholars to apply Aristotle's philosophy to Christian thought.
Alcaeus of Mytilene: Alcaeus (Alkaios, Attic Greek ) of Mytilene (c. 620 BC-6th century BC), Ancient Greek lyric poet who supposedly invented the Alcaic verse. He was included in the canonical list of nine lyric poets by the scholars of Hellenistic Alexandria. He was an older contemporary and an alleged lover of Sappho, with whom he may have exchanged poems.
Alboin: Alboin (530s - June 28, 572) was king of the Lombards from circa 560 to 572. During his reign the Lombards ended their migrations by definitively settling in Italy, the northern part of which was conquered by Alboin between 569 and 572.
Alcamenes: Alcamenes was an ancient Greek sculptor of Lemnos and Athens. He was a younger contemporary of Phidias and noted for the delicacy and finish of his works, among which a Hephaestus and an Aphrodite "of the Gardens" were conspicuous. Pausanias says (v. 10. 8) that he was the author of one of the pediments of the temple of Zeus at Olympia, but this seems a chronological and stylistic impossibility.
Afonso de Albuquerque: Afonso de Albuquerque (1453 - December 16, 1515) was a Portuguese fidalgo, or nobleman, a naval general officer whose military and administrative activities as second governor of Portuguese India conquered and established the Portuguese colonial empire in the Indian ocean.
Alcmene: In Greek mythology, Alcmene or Alcmena was the mother of Heracles.
Alcidamas: Alcidamas, of Elaea, in Aeolis, Greek sophist and rhetorician, flourished in the 4th century BC. He was the pupil and successor of Gorgias and taught at Athens at the same time as Isocrates, whose rival and opponent he was.
Aldine Press: Aldine Press was the printing office started by Aldus Manutius in 1494 in Venice, from which were issued the celebrated Aldine editions of the classics of the time. The Aldine Press is famous in the history of typography, among other things, for the introduction of italics. The press was the first to issue printed books in the small octavo size, similar to that of a modern paperback, and like that intended for portability and ease of reading.
Ealdred archbishop: Ealdred, or Aldred (? - 11 September 1069) was Abbot of Tavistock, Bishop of Worcester, and Archbishop of York in Anglo-Saxon England. He was related to a number of other ecclesiastics of the period. After becoming a monk at the monastery at Winchester, he was appointed Abbot of Tavistock Abbey in around 1027. In 1046 he was named to the See of Worcester, or Bishopric of Worcester.
Alexander I of Epirus: Alexander I of Epirus, also known as Alexander Molossus, was a king of Epirus (350 - 331 BC) of the Aeacid dynasty. As the son of Neoptolemus I and brother of Olympias, he was an uncle of Alexander the Great. He came at an early age to the court of Philip II of Macedon, and after the Grecian fashion became the object of his attachment. Philip in requital made him king of Epirus, after dethroning his uncle Arymbas.
Alexander of Pherae: Alexander was tagus or despot of Pherae in Thessaly, and ruled from 369 BC to 358 BC.
Alexander Balas: Alexander Balas, ruler of the Greek Seleucid kingdom 150-146 BC, was a native of Smyrna of humble origin, but gave himself out to be the son of Antiochus IV Epiphanes and heir to the Seleucid throne. Along with his sister Laodice, the youngster Alexander was "discovered" by Heracleides, a former minister of Antiochus IV and brother of Timarchus, an usurper in Media who had been executed by the reigning king Demetrius I Soter.
Alexander II of Epirus: Alexander II was a king of Epirus, and the son of Pyrrhus and Lanassa, the daughter of the Sicilian tyrant Agathocles.
Alexander Jagiellon: Alexander Jagiellon, Grand Duke of Lithuania and later also King of Poland; he was the fourth son of Casimir IV Jagiellon. He was elected Grand Duke of Lithuania on the death of his father (1492), and King of Poland on the death of his brother Jan I Olbracht (1501).
Alexander II of Russia: Alexander (Aleksandr) II Nikolaevich (29 April 1818, Moscow - 13 March 1881, Saint Petersburg), also known as Alexander the Liberator was the Emperor, or Czar, of the Russian Empire from 3 March 1855 until his assassination in 1881. He was also the Grand Duke of Finland and the King of Poland.
Alexander III of Russia: Alexander III Alexandrovich (10 March 1845 - 1 November 1894) reigned as Emperor of Russia from 13 March 1881 until his death in 1894. Unlike his father, liberal-leaning Alexander II, Alexander III is considered by historians to have been a repressive and reactionary tsar.
Alexander I of Russia: Alexander I of Russia (23 December 1777 - 1 December 1825), also known as Alexander the Blessed served as Emperor of Russia from 23 March 1801 to 1 December 1825 and Ruler of Poland from 1815 to 1825, as well as the first Russian Grand Duke of Finland and Lithuania. He was born in Saint Petersburg to Grand Duke Paul Petrovich, later Emperor Paul I, and Maria Feodorovna, daughter of the Duke of Wrttemberg. Alexander was the eldest of four brothers.
Alexander I of Serbia: Alexander I or Aleksandar Obrenovi (August 14, 1876 - June 11, 1903) was king of Serbia from 1889 to 1903 when he and his wife, Queen Draga were assassinated by a group of Army officers.
Alexander II of Scotland: Alexander II (24 August 1198 - 6 July 1249), King of Scots, was the only son of the Scottish king William the Lion and Ermengarde of Beaumont. He was born at Haddington, East Lothian, in 1198, and spent time in England before succeeding to the kingdom on the death of his father on 4 December 1214, being crowned at Scone on 6 December the same year.
Alexander of Aphrodisias: Alexander of Aphrodisias (fl. late 2nd early 3rd century CE) was a Peripatetitic philosopher and the most celebrated of the Ancient Greek commentators on the writings of Aristotle. He was styled, by way of pre-eminence, "the expositor" ( ).
Alexander III of Scotland: Alexander III (4 September 1241 - 19 March 1286), King of Scots, was born at Roxburgh, the only son of Alexander II by his second wife Marie de Coucy. Alexander's father died on 6 July 1249 and he became king at the age of eight, inaugurated at Scone on 13 July 1249. The years of his minority featured an embittered struggle for the control of affairs between two rival parties, the one led by Walter Comyn, Earl of Menteith, the other by Alan Durward, Justiciar of Scotia.
Alexander I of Scotland: Alexander I or Alaxandair mac Mal Coluim (c. 1078 - 23 April 1124), called "The Fierce", King of the Scots or King of Alba, was the fourth son of Ml Coluim mac Donnchada by his wife Margaret of Wessex, grandniece of Edward the Confessor. He was named for Pope Alexander II.
Alexander Severus: Marcus Aurelius Severus Alexander (October 1, 208-March 18, 235 AD), commonly called Alexander Severus, was the last Roman emperor (11 March 222-235) of the Severan dynasty.
Alexander Aetolus: Alexander Aetolus (Gr. ) was a Greek poet and grammarian, the only known representative of Aetolian poetry. He was the son of Satyrus and Stratocleia, and was a native of Pleuron in Aetolia, although he spent the greater part of his life at Alexandria, where he was reckoned one of the seven tragic poets who constituted the Tragic Pleiad. He flourished about 280 BC, in the reign of Ptolemy II Philadelphus.
Alexandrists: The Alexandrists were a school of Renaissance philosophers who, in the great controversy on the subject of personal immortality, adopted the explanation of the De Anima given by Alexander of Aphrodisias. According to the orthodox Thomism of the Roman Catholic Church, Aristotle rightly regarded reason as a facility of the individual soul.
Alexander Jannaeus: Alexander Jannaeus, king of Judea from (103 BC to 76 BC), son of John Hyrcanus, inherited the throne from his brother Aristobulus I, and appears to have married his brother's widow, Shlomtzion or "Shelomit", also known as Salome Alexandra, according to the Biblical law of Yibum ("levirate marriage"), although Josephus is inexplicit on that point.
Alexios I Komnenos: Alexios I Komnenos, Latinized as Alexius I Comnenus, was Byzantine emperor from 1081 to 1118, and the founder of the Komnenian dynasty. Inheriting a collapsing empire and faced with constant warfare during his reign against both the Seljuk Turks in Asia Minor and the Normans in the western Balkans, Alexios was able to halt the Byzantine decline and begin the military, financial, and territorial recovery known as the "Komnenian restoration".
Alexios III Angelos: Alexios III Angelos (c. 1153 - 1211) was Byzantine emperor from 1195 to 1203.
Alexios II Komnenos: Alexios II Komnenos or Alexius II Comnenus (10 September 1169 - 24 September 1183, Constantinople), Byzantine emperor (1180-1183), was the son of Emperor Manuel I Komnenos and Maria, daughter of Raymond, prince of Antioch. He was the long-awaited male heir, and was named Alexius as a fulfilment of the AIMA prophecy.
Alexis: Alexis was a Greek comic poet of the Middle Comedy, born at Thurii in Magna Graeca and taken early to Athens, where he became a citizen, of the deme Oion (), and the tribe Leontides. It was said he had a son, called Stephanus, who also wrote thrillers. He appears to have been rather addicted to the pleasures of the table, according to Athenaeus. He won his first Lenaean victory in the 350s BC, most likely, where he was sixth after Eubulus, and fourth after Antiphanes.
Alexios V Doukas: Alexios V Doukas, surnamed Mourtzouphlos was Byzantine emperor (5 February - 12 April 1204) during the second and final siege of Constantinople by the participants of the Fourth Crusade. He was related to the imperial Doukas family. His nickname "Mourtzouphlos" referred to either his bushy, overhanging eyebrows or his sullen character. The term has the meaning of one being crestfallen, depressed, despondent, downcast, gloomy, sullen and evidently frowning, scowling.
Alexei Petrovich Tsarevich of Russia: Alexei Petrovich Romanov (28 February 1690 - 7 July 1718), was a Russian Tsarevich. He was born in Moscow, the son of Tsar Peter I and his first wife Eudoxia Lopukhina.
Andrew Jackson: Andrew Jackson (March 15, 1767 - June 8, 1845) was the seventh President of the United States (1829-1837). He was military governor of Florida (1821), commander of the American forces at the Battle of New Orleans (1815), and eponym of the era of Jacksonian democracy. A polarizing figure who dominated American politics in the 1820s and 1830s, his political ambition combined with widening political participation, shaping the modern Democratic Party.
Andrew Johnson: Andrew Johnson (December 29, 1808 - July 31, 1875) was the 17th President of the United States(1865-1869), and the last independent president. Following the assassination of President Lincoln, Johnson presided over the immediate aftermath of the American Civil War. At the time of the secession of the Southern states, Johnson was a U.S. Senator from Greeneville in East Tennessee. As a Unionist, he was the only southern senator not to quit his post upon secession.
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn: Aleksandr Isayevich Solzhenitsyn (December 11, 1918 - August 3, 2008) was a Soviet and Russian novelist, dramatist, and historian. Through his writings he helped to make the world aware of the Gulag, the Soviet Union's forced labor camp system - particularly The Gulag Archipelago and One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich, two of his best-known works. Solzhenitsyn was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1970. He was exiled from the Soviet Union in 1974 and returned to Russia in 1994.
Antipope: An antipope is a person who, in opposition to a sitting Bishop of Rome, makes a widely accepted claim to be the Pope. In the past, antipopes were typically those supported by a fairly significant faction of cardinals and kingdoms. Persons who claim to be the pope but have few followers, such as the modern sedevacantist antipopes, are not generally classified as antipopes, and therefore are ignored for regnal numbering.
Aquaculture: Aquaculture is the farming of freshwater and saltwater organisms such as finfish, mollusks, crustaceans and aquatic plants. Also known as aquafarming, aquaculture involves cultivating aquatic populations under controlled conditions, and can be contrasted with commercial fishing, which is the harvesting of wild fish. Commercial aquaculture supplies one half of the fish and shellfish that is directly consumed by humans. Mariculture refers to aquaculture practiced in marine environments.
Kolmogorov complexity: In algorithmic information theory (a subfield of computer science), the Kolmogorov complexity (also known as descriptive complexity, Kolmogorov-Chaitin complexity, stochastic complexity, algorithmic entropy, or program-size complexity) of an object such as a piece of text is a measure of the computational resources needed to specify the object.
Hymn to Proserpine: "Hymn to Proserpine" is a poem by Algernon Charles Swinburne, published in 1866. The poem is addressed to the goddess Proserpina, the Roman equivalent of Persephone. The poem opens with the words Vicisti, Galil, Latin for "You have conquered, O Galilean," the apocryphal of the Emperor Julian. He had tried to reverse the official endorsement of Christianity by the Roman Empire.
The Triumph of Time: The Triumph of Time is a poem by Algernon Charles Swinburne, published in 1866. It is in adapted ottava rima and is full of elaborate use of literary devices, particularly alliteration. The theme, which purports to be autobiographical, is that of rejected love. The (male) speaker deplores the ruin of his life, and in tones at times reminiscent of Hamlet, craves oblivion, for which the sea serves as a constant metaphor.
Aberdeen: Aberdeen is Scotland's third most populous city and one of Scotland's 32 local government council areas. It has an official population estimate of 210,400. Nicknames include the Granite City, the Grey City and the Silver City with the Golden Sands. During the mid-18th to mid-20th centuries, Aberdeen's buildings incorporated locally quarried grey granite, whose mica deposits sparkle like silver. The city has a long, sandy coastline.
Alessandro Algardi: Alessandro Algardi (31 July 1598 - 10 June 1654) was an Italian high-Baroque sculptor active almost exclusively in Rome, where for the latter decades of his life, he was the major rival of Gian Lorenzo Bernini.
Alger of Li ge: Alger of Lie (1055-1131), known also as Alger of Cluny and Algerus Magister, a learned French priest who lived in the first half of the 12th century. He was first a deacon of the church of St Bartholomew at Lie, his native town, and was then appointed (c. 1100) to the cathedral church of Saint Lambert of Maastricht. He declined many offers from German bishops and finally retired to the monastery of Cluny, where he died at great age and leaving a good reputation for piety and intelligence.
Alfred the Great: Alfred the Great, was King of Wessex from 871 to 899. Alfred is noted for his defence of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms of southern England against the Vikings, becoming the only English king to be accorded the epithet "the Great". Alfred was the first King of the West Saxons to style himself "King of the Anglo-Saxons". Details of his life are described in a work by the Welsh scholar and bishop, Asser.
Alessandro Allori: Alessandro di Cristofano di Lorenzo del Bronzino Allori (3 May 1535 - 22 September 1607) was an Italian portrait painter of the late Mannerist Florentine school. Born in Florence, in 1540, after the death of his father, he was brought up and trained in art by a close friend, often referred to as his 'uncle', the mannerist painter Agnolo Bronzino, whose name he sometimes assumed in his pictures.
Alhazen: Ab Al al-asan ibn al-asan ibn al-Haytham (965 in Basra - c. 1039 in Cairo) was an Arab or Persian scientist and polymath. He made significant contributions to the principles of optics, as well as to anatomy, astronomy, engineering, mathematics, medicine, ophthalmology, philosophy, physics, psychology, visual perception, and to science in general with his early application of the scientific method. He is sometimes called al-Basri, after his birthplace in the city of Basra.
Algiers: Algiers /rz/ is the capital and largest city of Algeria, and the second largest city in the Maghreb. According to the 1998 census, the population of the city proper was 1,519,570 and that of the urban agglomeration was 2,135,630. A recent UN estimate of the urban agglomeration (metropolitan area) puts the population at 3,354,000 as of 2007.
Aloe: Aloe, also written Alo, is a genus containing about four hundred species of flowering succulent plants. The most common and well known of these is Aloe vera, or "true aloe". The genus is native to Africa, and is common in South Africa's Cape Province, the mountains of tropical Africa, and neighboring areas such as Madagascar, the Arabian peninsula, and the islands of Africa. The APG II system (2003) placed the genus in the family Asphodelaceae.
Almoravid dynasty: The Almoravids was a Berber dynasty of Sahara, which lived between the current Senegal and south of the current Morocco. It is affiliated to the Berber tribe of Sanhaja and Lamtuna. From the eleventh century to the twelfth century, they ruled the Sahara, part of North Africa and part of the Iberian Peninsula.
Alyattes II: Alyattes, king of Lydia (619-560 BC), the real founder of the Lydian empire, was the son of Sadyattes, of the house of the Mermnadae. For several years he continued the war against Miletus begun by his father, but was obliged to turn his attention to the Medes and Babylonians. On May 28, 585 BC, during the Battle of Halys fought against Cyaxares, king of Media, a solar eclipse took place; hostilities were suspended, peace concluded, and the Halys fixed as the boundary between the two kingdoms.
Alypius of Antioch: Alypius of Antioch was a geographer and a vicarius of Roman Britain, probably in the late 350s AD. He replaced Flavius Martinus after that vicarius' suicide. His rule is recorded is Ammianus XXIII 1, 3. He came from Antioch and served under Constantius II and was probably appointed to ensure that nobody with western associations was serving in Britain during a time of mistrust, rebellion and suppression symbolised by the brutal acts of the imperial notary Paulus Catena.
Amalasuntha: Amalasuntha (also known as Amalasuentha, Amalaswintha, Amalasuintha, Amalswinthe or Amalasontha) (ca 495 - 30 April 534/535) was a queen of the Ostrogoths from 526 to 534. A daughter of Ostrogothic king Theodoric the Great, she secretly married a slave named Traguilla. When her mother Audofleda found them together, Traguilla was killed. She was married in 515 to Eutharic (b.
Age of consent: While the phrase age of consent typically does not appear in legal statutes, when used in relation to sexual activity, the age of consent is the minimum age at which a person is considered to be legally competent of consenting to sexual acts. The European Union calls it the legal age for sexual activities. It should not be confused with the age of majority, age of criminal responsibility, or the marriageable age. The age of consent varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
Amalric of Bena: Amalric of Bena (Amaury de Be or Amaury de Chartres; Almaricus, Amalricus, Amauricus; died c. 1204-1207) was a French theologian, after whom the Amalricians are named.
Afonso I of Portugal: Afonso I, or also Affonso (Archaic Portuguese) or Alphonso or Alphonsus, sometimes rendered in English as Alphonzo or Alphonse, depending on the Spanish or French influence, more commonly known as Afonso Henriques, nicknamed the Conqueror, the Founder or the Great by the Portuguese, and El-Bortukali (the Portuguese) and Ibn-Arrik (son of Henry) by the Moors whom he fought, was the first King of Portugal.
Afonso II of Portugal: Afonso II, or Affonso (Archaic Portuguese), Alfonso or Alphonso or Alphonsus, nicknamed "the Fat", third king of Portugal, was born in Coimbra on 23 April 1185 and died on 25 March 1223 in the same city. He was the second but eldest surviving son of Sancho I of Portugal by his wife, Dulce, Infanta of Aragon. Afonso succeeded his father in 1212. As a king, Afonso II set a different approach of government.
Afonso III of Portugal: Afonso III, or Affonso (Archaic Portuguese), Alfonso or Alphonso or Alphonsus, the Bolognian, the fifth King of Portugal and the first to use the title King of Portugal and the Algarve, since 1249. He was the second son of King Afonso II of Portugal and his wife, Urraca, princess of Castile; he succeeded his brother, King Sancho II of Portugal, who was removed from the throne, on 4 January 1248.
Afonso IV of Portugal: Afonso IV (8 February 1291 - 28 May 1357), called the Brave, was the seventh king of Portugal and the Algarve from 1325 until his death. He was the only legitimate son of King Denis of Portugal by his wife Elizabeth of Aragon. Afonso, born in Lisbon, was the rightful heir to the Portuguese throne. However, he was not, according to several sources, Dinis' favourite son; his half-brother, the illegitimate Afonso Sanches, enjoyed full royal favour.
Alfonso II of Asturias: Alfonso II (759-842), called the Chaste, was the king of Asturias from 791 to his death, the son of Fruela I and the Basque Munia. He was born in Oviedo in 759 or 760. He was put under the guardianship of his aunt Adosinda after his father's death, but one tradition relates his being put in the monastery of Samos. He was the governor of the palace during the reign of Adosinda's husband Silo.
Afonso V of Portugal: Afonso V (originally Affonso) (15 January 1432 - 28 August 1481), called the African, was the twelfth King of Portugal and the Algarves. His sobriquet refers to his conquests in Northern Africa. He was born in Sintra, the eldest son of King Edward of Portugal by his wife, Infanta Eleanor of Aragon. Afonso V was only six years old when he succeeded his father in 1438. During his minority, Afonso V was placed under the regency of his mother, according to a late will of his father.
Amara Sinha: Amara Sinha was a Sanskrit grammarian and poet, of whose personal history hardly anything is known. He is said to have been "one of the nine gems that adorned the throne of Vikramaditya," and according to the evidence of Hsuan Tsang, this is the Chandragupta Vikramaditya that flourished about AD 375. Amara seems to have been a Buddhist; and an early tradition asserts that his works, with one exception, were destroyed during the persecution carried on by the orthodox Brahmins in the 5th century.
Afonso VI of Portugal: Afonso VI, or Affonso (Old Portuguese), (21 August 1643 - 12 September 1683) was the twenty-second (or twenty-third according to some historians) king of Portugal and the Algarves, the second of the House of Braganza, known as "the Victorious". At the age of three, Afonso suffered an illness that left him paralyzed on the left side of his body, as well as leaving him mentally unstable. His father created him 10th Duke of Braganza.
Alphonsus a Sancta Maria: Alphonsus a Sancta Maria, or Alphonso de Cartagena (1396 - July 12, 1456), Spanish historian, was born at Cartagena, and succeeded his father, Paulus, as bishop of Burgos. In 1431 he was deputed by John II, king of Castile, to attend the council of Basel, in which he made himself conspicuous by his learning. He was the author of several works, the principal of which is entitled Rerum Hispanorum Romanorum imperatorum, summorum pontificum, nec non regum Francorum anacephaleosis.
Amaryllis: Amaryllis is a monotypic genus of plant also known as the Belladonna Lily or naked ladies. The single species, Amaryllis belladonna, is a native of South Africa, particularly the rocky southwest region near the Cape. It should not be confused with Hippeastreum, a flowering bulb commonly sold in the winter months for its ability to bloom indoors.
Alfonso the Battler: Alfonso I (1073/1074 - 8 September 1134), called the Battler or the Warrior, was the king of Aragon and Navarre from 1104 until his death in 1134. He was the second son of King Sancho Ramrez and successor of his brother Peter I. With his marriage to Urraca, queen regnant of Castile and Le, in 1109, he began to use, with some justification, the grandiose title Emperor of Spain, formerly employed by his father-in-law, Alfonso VI.
Alfonso IV of Aragon: Alfonso IV, called the Kind (1299, Naples - 24 January 1336) was the King of Aragon and Count of Barcelona (as Alfonso III) from 1327 to his death. He was the second son of James II and Blanche of Anjou. His reign saw the incorporation of the County of Urgell, Duchy of Athens, and Duchy of Neopatria into the Crown of Aragon. During the reign of his father, he was the procurator general of the Crown.
Alfonso III of Aragon: Alfonso III (1265, Valencia - 18 June 1291), called the Liberal (el Liberal) or the Free (also "the Frank," from el Franc), was the King of Aragon and Count of Barcelona (as Alfons II) from 1285. He conquered the Kingdom of Majorca between his succession and 1287. He was a son of Peter III of Aragon and his Queen consort Constantia of Sicily, daughter and heiress of Manfred of Sicily. His maternal grandmother Beatrice of Savoy was a daughter of Amadeus IV of Savoy and Anne of Burgundy.
Amasis II: Amasis II (also Ahmose II) was a pharaoh (570 BC - 526 BC) of the Twenty-sixth dynasty of Egypt, the successor of Apries at Sais. He was the last great ruler of Egypt before the Persian conquest.
Amati: Amati is the name of a family of Italian violin makers, who flourished at Cremona from about 1549 to 1740.
Amathus: Amathus (Modern Greek ) was one of the most ancient royal cities of Cyprus, on the southern coast in front of Agios Tychonas, about 24 miles west of Larnaca and 6 miles east of Limassol. Its ancient cult of Aphrodite was the most important, after Paphos, in Cyprus, her homeland, though the ruins of Amathus are less well-preserved than neighboring Kourion.
Alfonso V of Aragon: Alfonso the Magnanimous was the King of Aragon (as Alfonso V), Valencia (as Alfonso III), Majorca, Sardinia and Corsica (as Alfonso II), and Sicily and Count of Barcelona (as Alfonso IV) from 1416 and King of Naples (as Alfonso I) from 1442 until his death. He was one of the most prominent figures of the early Renaissance and a knight of the Order of the Dragon.
Ambergris: Ambergris (Ambra grisea, Ambre gris, ambergrease, or grey amber) is a solid, waxy, flammable substance of a dull gray or blackish color produced in the digestive system of sperm whales. Ambergris has a peculiar sweet, earthy odor. The principal historical use of ambergris was as a fixative in perfumery, though it has now been largely displaced by synthetics.
Amazons: The Amazons are a nation of all-female warriors in Classical and Greek mythology. Herodotus placed them in a region bordering Scythia in Sarmatia (modern territory of Ukraine). Other historiographers place them in Asia Minor or Libya. Notable queens of the Amazons are Penthesilea, who participated in the Trojan War, and her sister Hippolyta, whose magical girdle was the object of one of the labours of Hercules.
Ambiorix: Ambiorix was, together with Catuvolcus, prince of the Eburones, leader of a Belgic tribe of north-eastern Gaul, where modern Belgium is located. In the 19th century Ambiorix became a Belgian national hero because of his resistance against Julius Caesar, as written in Caesar's Commentarii de Bello Gallico.
August Wilhelm Ambros: August Wilhelm Ambros (November 17, 1816 - June 28, 1876) was an Austrian composer and music historian of Czech descent.
Alured of Beverley: Alredus, or Alfred of Beverley, English chronicler, was sacristan of the church of Beverley in the first half of the 12th century. He wrote, apparently about the year 1143, a chronicle entitled Annales sive Historia de gestis regum Britanniae, which begins with Brutus and carries the history of England down to 1129. Geoffrey of Monmouth and Simeon of Durham are Alured's chief sources.
Autpert Ambrose: Autpert Ambrose (Ambroise) (ca. 730 - 784), was a Frankish Benedictine monk. He became abbot of San Vicenzo on the Volturno in South Italy in the time of Desiderius, king of the Lombards. Autpert's election as abbot caused internal dissent at St. Vicenzo, and both Pope Stephen III and Charlemagne intervened. The disagreement was based both on objections to Autpert's personality and to his Frankish origin. He wrote a considerable number of works on the Bible and religious subjects generally.
Amazon River: The Amazon River of South America is the largest river in the world by volumetric discharge, with a total river flow greater than the next ten largest rivers combined. The Amazon, which has the largest drainage basin in the world, accounts for approximately one-fifth of the world's total river flow. In its upper stretches the Amazon river is called Apurmac (in Peru) and Solims (in Brazil). During the wet season, parts of the Amazon exceed 190 kilometres (120 mi) in width.
Ambrosians: Ambrosians is a term that might be applied either to members of one of the religious brotherhoods which at various times since the 14th century have sprung up in and around Milan or, exceptionally to a 16th century sect of Anabaptists.
Ambrose the Camaldulian: Ambrose the Camaldulian, born Ambrogio Traversari (1386 - October 20, 1439) was an Italian theologian.
Abu Bakr: Abu Bakr As-Siddiq (Abdallah ibn Abi Qahafa) was Muhammad's father-in-law, one of the closest companions and adviser. Abu Bakar succeeded to the Prophet's political and administrative functions, thereby initiating the office of the caliphate. Ab Bakr purportedly was the first male convert to Islam, but this view is doubted by a majority of Muslim historians. Muhammad conferred on him the title as-Siddiq, the veracious, for his power to discern the truth.
Ambrosiaster: Ambrosiaster is the name given to the writer of a commentary on St Paul's epistles, "brief in words but weighty in matter," and valuable for the criticism of the Latin text of the New Testament. This commentary was erroneously attributed for a long time to St Ambrose.
Ambrosius Aurelianus: Ambrosius Aurelianus, Welsh: Emrys Wledig; called Aurelius Ambrosius in the Historia Regum Britanniae and elsewhere, was a war leader of the Romano-British who won an important battle against the Anglo-Saxons in the 5th century, according to Gildas. Some scholars have speculated that he was the leader of the Britons at the Battle of Mons Badonicus and as such may have been a historical basis for King Arthur.
Ammonius Hermiae: Ammonius Hermiae was a Greek philosopher, and the son of the Neoplatonist philosophers Hermias and Aedesia. He was a pupil of Proclus in Athens, and taught at Alexandria for most of his life, writing commentaries on Plato, Aristotle, and other philosophers.
Ammonius Saccas: Ammonius Saccas (3rd century AD) was a Greek philosopher from Alexandria who was often referred to as one of the founders of Neoplatonism. He is mainly known as the teacher of Plotinus, whom he taught for eleven years from 232 to 243. He was undoubtably the biggest influence on Plotinus in his development of Neoplatonism, although little is known about his own philosophical views.
Book of Amos: The Book of Amos is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible. Amos was the first biblical prophet whose words were recorded in a book, an older contemporary of Hosea and Isaiah. He was active c. 750 BC during the reign of Jeroboam II. He lived in the kingdom of Judah but preached in the northern kingdom of Israel. His major themes of social justice, God's omnipotence, and divine judgment became staples of prophecy.
Amram: In the Book of Exodus, Amram, is the father of Aaron, Moses, and Miriam and the husband of Jochebed
Amyntas I of Macedon: Amyntas I, king of Macedon (Greek A; c. 540 - 498 BC), was a tributary vassal of Darius Hystaspes of Persia. With him the history of Macedon may be said to begin. He was the first of its rulers to have relations with other countries; he entered into an alliance with Hippias of Athens, and when Hippias was driven out of Athens he offered him the territory of Anthemus on the Thermaic Gulf.
Ammon: Ammon and Ammonites are names of an ancient kingdom and people who, according to the Old Testament and other sources, occupied an area east of the Jordan River, Gilead, and the Dead Sea, in present-day Jordan. The chief city of the country was Rabbah or Rabbath Ammon, site of the modern city of Amman, Jordan's capital. Milcom and Molech (perhaps one and the same) are named in the Bible as the gods of Ammon.
Amphipolis: Amphipolis was an ancient Greek city in the region once inhabited by the Edoni people in the present-day periphery of Central Macedonia. It was built on a raised plateau overlooking the east bank of the river Strymon where it emerged from Lake Cercinitis, about 3 m. from the Aegean Sea. Founded in 437 BC, the city was finally abandoned in the 8th century AD. The present municipality Amfipoli, named after the ancient city, occupies the site.
Anacharsis: Anacharsis was a Scythian philosopher who travelled from his homeland on the northern shores of the Black Sea to Athens in the early 6th century BC and made a great impression as a forthright, outspoken "barbarian," apparently a forerunner of the Cynics, though none of his works have survived.
Amyntas III of Macedon: Amyntas III son of Arrhidaeus and father of Philip II, was king of Macedon in 393 BC, and again from 392 to 370 BC. He came to the throne after the ten years of confusion which followed the death of Archelaus I, the patron of art and literature. But he had many enemies at home; in 393 he was driven out by the Illyrians, but in the following year, with the aid of the Thessalians, he recovered his kingdom.
Anah: Anah, or `Ana, is an Iraqi town on the Euphrates river, approximately mid-way between the Gulf of Alexandretta and the Persian Gulf. It is called Hanat in a Babylonian letter (about 2200 BC), a-na-at by the scribes of Tukulti-Ninurta (885 BC), and An-at by the scribe of Assur-nasir-pal (879 B.C. ), Anatho (Isidore Charax), Anatha (Ammianus Marcellinus) by Greek and Latin writers in the early Christian centuries, `Ana (sometimes, as if plural, `Anat) by Arabic writers.
Ancyra genus: Members of the southeast Asian planthopper genus Ancyra are well-known for having a pair of prolonged filaments at the tips of the forewings that arise near a pair of small glossy spots; this creates the impression of a pair of antennae, with corresponding "eyes" (a remarkable case of automimicry).
Anaxagoras: Anaxagoras was a Pre-Socratic Greek philosopher. Born in Clazomenae in Asia Minor, Anaxagoras was the first philosopher to bring philosophy from Ionia to Athens. He attempted to give a scientific account of eclipses, meteors, rainbows, and the sun, which he described as a fiery mass larger than the Peloponnese. He was accused of contravening the established religion and was forced to flee to Lampsacus.
Ananda: nanda was one of many principal disciples and a devout attendant of the Buddha. Amongst the Buddha's many disciples, nanda had the most retentive memory and most of the suttas in the Sutta Pitaka are attributed to his recollection of the Buddha's teachings during the First Buddhist Council. For that, he was known as the Guardian of the Dharma. According to the Buddha every Buddha in the past and to come will have two chief disciples and one attendant during his ministry.
Anastasius II: Anastasius II or Anastasios II could refer to: Anastasios II (emperor) Pope Anastasius II
Anaximenes of Lampsacus: Anaximenes of Lampsacus (c. 380 - 320 BC) was a Greek rhetorician and historian.
Anaxarchus: Anaxarchus or Anaxarch (nk; c. 380 - c. 320 BC) was a Greek philosopher of the school of Democritus, was born at Abdera in Thrace. He was the companion and friend of Alexander the Great in his Asiatic campaigns. According to Diogenes Laertius, in response to Alexander's claim to have been the son of Zeus-Ammon, Anaxarchus pointed to his bleeding wound and remarked, "See the blood of a mortal, not ichor, such as flows from the veins of the immortal gods.
Anaximenes of Miletus: Anaximenes of Miletus (fl. 585 BCE, d. 528 BCE) was an Archaic Greek Pre-Socratic philosopher active in the latter half of the 6th century BC. One of the three Milesian philosophers, he is identified as a younger friend or student of Anaximander. Anaximenes, like others in his school of thought, practiced material monism. This tendency to identify one specific underlying reality made up of a material thing constitutes the bulk of the contributions for which Anaximenes is most famed.
Anastasius I: Anastasius I or Anastasios I could refer to: Anastasius I (emperor) Pope Anastasius I
Andaman Islands: The Andaman Islands are a group of archipelagic islands in the Bay of Bengal, and are part of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands Union Territory of India. The Andaman Archipelago is an oceanic continuation of the Burmese Arakan Yoma range in the North and of the Indonesian Archipelago in the South. It includes some two hundred islands. Port Blair is the chief community on the islands, and the administrative centre of the Union Territory.
Ancus Marcius: Ancus Marcius (r. 640 BC - 616 BC) was the fourth of the Kings of Rome. He was the son of Marcius (whose father, also named Marcius, had been a close friend of Numa Pompilius) and Pompilia. . According to Festus, Marcius had the surname of Ancus from his crooked arm.
Alexander Anderson mathematician: Alexander Anderson (c. 1582-1620) was a Scottish mathematician born in Aberdeen. In his youth he went to the continent and taught mathematics in Paris, where he published or edited, between the years 1612 and 1619, various geometric and algebraic tracts. He was selected by the executors of Vieta to revise and edit Viete's manuscript works.
Andrea Andreani: Andrea Andreani (1540 - 1623) was an Italian engraver on wood, who was among the first printmakers in Italy to use chiaroscuro, which required multiple colours. Born and generally active in Mantua about 1540 (Brulliot says 1560) and died at Rome in 1623. His engravings are scarce and valuable, and are chiefly copies of Mantegna, Albrecht Drer, Parmigianino and Titian.
Andocides: Andocides, or Andokides, (Greek , 440-390 BC) was a logographer (speech writer) in Ancient Greece. He was one of the ten Attic orators included in the "Alexandrian Canon" compiled by Aristophanes of Byzantium and Aristarchus of Samothrace in the third century BCE. He was implicated during the Peloponnesian War in the mutilation of the Herms on the eve of the departure of the Athenian expedition against Sicily in 415 BC.
Andrew II of Hungary: Andrew II the Jerosolimitan (c. 1177 - 21 September 1235), King of Hungary(1205-1235). He was the younger son of King Ba III of Hungary, who invested him with the government of the Principality of Halych. However, the boyars of Halych rebelled against his rule and expelled the Hungarian troops. Following their father's death, Andrew continuously conspired against his brother, King Emeric of Hungary who had to grant him the government of Croatia and Dalmatia.
An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding: An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding is a book by the Scottish empiricist philosopher David Hume, published in 1748. It was a simplification of an earlier effort, Hume's A Treatise of Human Nature, published anonymously in London in 1739-40. Hume was disappointed with the reception of the Treatise, which "fell stillborn from the press," as he put it, and so tried again to disseminate his ideas to the public by writing a shorter and more polemical work.
Andr de Longjumeau: Andrew of Longjumeau was a 13th century Dominican missionary and diplomat and one of the most active Occidental diplomats in the East in the 13th century. He led two embassies to the Mongols: the first carried letters from Pope Innocent IV and the second bore gifts and letters from Louis IX of France to Gyk Khan. Well acquainted with the Middle-East, he spoke Arabic and "Chaldean".
Andronikos II Palaiologos: Andronikos II Palaiologos (25 March 1259, Nicaea - February 13, 1332, Constantinople) also Andronicus II Palaeologus reigned as Byzantine emperor from 1282 to 1328. He was the eldest surviving son of Michael VIII Palaiologos and Theodora Doukaina Vatatzina, grandniece of John III Doukas Vatatzes.
Andronikos III Palaiologos: Andronikos III Palaiologos, Latinized as Andronicus III Palaeologus reigned as Byzantine emperor 1328-1341, after being rival emperor since 1321. Andronikos III was the son of Michael IX Palaiologos and Princess Rita of Armenia (renamed Maria). His maternal grandparents were King Levon II of Armenia and Queen Keran of Armenia.
Andriscus: Andriscus,, also spelt Andriskos and often called the "pseudo-Philip", was the last King of Macedonia, and ruler of Adramyttium in Aeolis. In 168 BC, the Romans had invaded Macedonia and overthrew the king, Perseus, in the First Battle of Pydna. In 149 BC, Andriskos, at that time ruler of Adramyttium only, and claiming to be Perseus' son, announced his intention to retake Macedonia from the Romans.
Andronikos I Komnenos: Andronikos I Komnenos or Andronicus I Comnenus was a Byzantine emperor (r. 1183-1185), son of prince Isaac Komnenos. His paternal grandparents were Emperor Alexios I Komnenos and Eirene Doukaina.
Andronicus of Cyrrhus: Andronicus of Cyrrhus or Andronicus Cyrrhestes,son of Hermias, was a Greek astronomer who flourished about 100 BC. He built a horologium at Athens, the so-called Tower of the Winds, a considerable portion of which still exists. It is octagonal, with figures carved on each side, representing the eight principal winds. In antiquity a bronze figure of Triton on the summit, with a rod in his hand, turned round by the wind, pointed to the quarter from which it blew.
Ammianus Marcellinus: Ammianus Marcellinus (325/330-after 391) was a fourth-century Roman historian. His is the penultimate major historical account written during Antiquity (the last was written by Procopius). His work chronicled in Latin the history of Rome from 96 to 378, although only the sections covering the period 353-378 are extant.
ALICE: ALICE may refer to: A Large Ion Collider Experiment, a high energy heavy physics experiment CERN's Large Hadron Collider All-purpose Lightweight Individual Carrying Equipment, a package of load-bearing equipment utilized by the United States Armed Forces Artificial Linguistic Internet Computer Entity, a natural language processing chatterbot.
Apollo 13: Apollo 13 was to have been the third Apollo mission to land on the Moon, but a mid-mission oxygen tank rupture caused sufficient damage to force the lunar landing to be aborted. The flight was commanded by James A. Lovell, with John L. "Jack" Swigert command module pilot, and Fred W. Haise lunar module pilot. The mission launched on April 11, 1970 at 13:13 CST.
Apollo 7: Apollo 7 (October 11-22, 1968) was the first manned mission launched as part of the Apollo program. It was an eleven-day Earth-orbital mission, the first manned launch of the Saturn IB launch vehicle, and the first three-person American space mission. The crew consisted of Mission Commander Walter M. Schirra, Command Module Pilot Donn F. Eisele, and Lunar Module Pilot R. Walter Cunningham. The mission was intended as a test flight of the newly redesigned command module.
Andronicus of Rhodes: Andronicus of Rhodes (fl. c. 60 BC) was a Greek philosopher from Rhodes who was also the eleventh scholarch of the Peripatetic school. He was at the head of the Peripatetic school at Rome, about 58 BC, and was the teacher of Boethus of Sidon, with whom Strabo studied.
Apollo 9: Apollo 9 was the first manned flight of the Command/Service Module (CSM) along with the Lunar Module (LM). Its three-person crew, consisting of Mission Commander Jim McDivitt, Command Module Pilot David Scott, and Lunar Module Pilot Rusty Schweickart tested several aspects critical to landing on the moon, including the LM engines, backpack life support systems, navigation systems, and docking maneuvers.
Arthritis: Arthritis is a group of conditions involving damage to the joints of the body. There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form, osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease) is a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and autoimmune diseases in which the body attacks itself. Septic arthritis is caused by joint infection. The major complaint by individuals who have arthritis is pain.
Acetylene: Acetylene is the chemical compound with the formula HC2H. It is a hydrocarbon and the simplest alkyne. This colourless gas is widely used as a fuel and a chemical building block. It is unstable in pure form and thus is usually handled as a solution. As an alkyne, acetylene is unsaturated because its two carbon atoms are bonded together in a triple bond. The carbon-carbon triple bond places all four atoms in the same straight line, with CCH bond angles of 180.
Alfred: Alfred may refer to: Alfred (bishop) Alfred (name) Alfred the Great, king of Wessex Alfred Aetheling, son of King Ethelred II of England In places: Alfred, Maine Alfred (village), New York Alfred (town), New York Alfred, Ontario, Canada Alfred Island, Nunavut, Canada Lake Alfred, Florida In fiction: Alfred, a fictional penguin in the comic strip Zig et Puce Alfred J.
Athenian democracy: Athenian democracy was developed in the Greek city-state of Athens, comprising the central city-state of Athens and the surrounding territory of Attica, around 500 BC. Athens was one of the very first known democracies. Other Greek cities set up democracies, most but not all following an Athenian model, but none were as powerful, stable, or as well-documented as that of Athens.
Alexander Selkirk: Alexander Selkirk (1676 - 13 December 1721), born Alexander Selcraig, was a Scottish sailor who spent four years as a castaway when he was marooned on an uninhabited island. It is probable that his travails provided the inspiration for Daniel Defoe's novel Robinson Crusoe.
Apuleius: Apuleius (sometimes called Lucius Apuleius; c. 125 - c. 180) was a Latin prose writer. He was a Berber, from Madaurus. He studied Platonist philosophy in Athens; travelled to Italy, Asia Minor and Egypt; and was an initiate in several cults or mysteries. The most famous incident in his life was when he was accused of using magic to gain the attentions (and fortune) of a wealthy widow.
Arabic numerals: The Arabic numerals, Hindu or Hindu-Arabic numerals are the ten digits (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9). They are descended from the Hindu-Arabic numeral system developed by Indian mathematicians, by which a sequence of digits such as "975" is read as a whole number. The Indian numerals were adopted by the Persian mathematicians in India, and passed on to the Arabs further west.
Anti-ballistic missile: An anti-ballistic missile (ABM) is a missile designed to counter ballistic missiles (a missile for missile defense). A ballistic missile is used to deliver nuclear, chemical, biological or conventional warheads in a ballistic flight trajectory. The term "anti-ballistic missile" describes any antimissile system designed to counter ballistic missiles. However the term is used more commonly for ABM systems designed to counter long range, nuclear-armed intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs).
ATP: ATP may refer to:
Acre: The acre is a unit of area in a number of different systems, including the imperial and U.S. customary systems. The most commonly used acres today are the international acre and, in the United States, the survey acre. One international acre is equal to 4,046.856 422 4 m exactly. One U.S. survey acre is equal to 15,499,969 m = 4,046.872 609 874 252 m approximately.
Adenosine triphosphate: Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is a multifunctional nucleotide used in cells as a coenzyme. It is often called the "molecular unit of currency" of intracellular energy transfer. ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. It is produced by photophosphorylation and cellular respiration and used by enzymes and structural proteins in many cellular processes, including biosynthetic reactions, motility, and cell division.
 gir: ir is a junn and a king of the sea in Norse mythology. He seems to be a personification of the power of the ocean. He was also known for hosting elaborate parties for the gods. In Snorri Sturluson's Skdskaparm, ir is identified with Gymir and Hl who lived on the isle of Hley. The prose header of Lokasenna states that his hall is a place of sanctuary lit with bright gold and where the beer pours itself.
Antibiotic: In common usage, an antibiotic is a substance or compound that kills, or inhibits the growth of, bacteria. Antibiotics belong to the broader group of antimicrobial compounds, used to treat infections caused by microorganisms, including fungi and protozoa. The term "antibiotic" was coined by Selman Waksman in 1942 to describe any substance produced by a microorganism that is to the growth of other microorganisms in high dilution.
ASA: ASA as an abbreviation or initialism may stand for:
Actium: Actium was the ancient name of a promontory of western Greece in northwestern Acarnania, at the mouth of the Sinus Ambracius opposite Nicopolis, built by Augustus on the north side of the strait. On the promontory was an ancient temple of Apollo Actius, which was enlarged by Augustus, who, to memorialize the Battle of Actium, instituted or renewed the quinquennial games known as Actia or Ludi Actiaci. Actiaca Aera was a computation of time from the battle.
Arnold Schwarzenegger: Arnold Alois Schwarzenegger is an Austrian American bodybuilder, actor, model, businessman, and politician, currently serving as the 38th Governor of California.
Amway: Amway is a direct selling company and manufacturer that uses multi-level marketing to sell a variety of products, primarily in the health, beauty, and home care markets. Amway was founded in 1959 by Jay Van Andel and Richard DeVos. Based in Ada, Michigan, the company and family of companies under Alticor reported sales growth of 15%, reaching US$8.2 billion for the year ending December 31, 2008.
Adolph Wilhelm Hermann Kolbe: Adolph Wilhelm Hermann Kolbe (September 27, 1818 - November 25, 1884) was a German chemist. He never used the first two of his given names, preferring to be known as Hermann Kolbe.
Adam Smith: Adam Smith (baptised 16 June 1723 - 17 July 1790) was a Scottish moral philosopher and a pioneer of political economics. One of the key figures of the Scottish Enlightenment, Smith is the author of The Theory of Moral Sentiments and An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations. The latter, usually abbreviated as The Wealth of Nations, is considered his magnum opus and the first modern work of economics. Smith is widely cited as the father of modern economics.
Antoine Lavoisier: Antoine-Laurent de Lavoisier (26 August 1743 - 8 May 1794)), the father of modern chemistry, was a French noble prominent in the histories of chemistry and biology. He stated the first version of the law of conservation of mass, recognized and named oxygen (1778) and hydrogen (1783), abolished the phlogiston theory, helped construct the metric system, wrote the first extensive list of elements, and helped to reform chemical nomenclature.
Allomorph: An allomorph is a linguistics term for a variant form of a morpheme. The concept occurs when a unit of meaning can vary in sound (phonologically) without changing meaning. It is used in linguistics to explain the comprehension of variations in sound for a specific morpheme.
Affix: An affix is a morpheme that is attached to a word stem to form a new word. Affixes may be derivational, like English -ness and pre-, or inflectional, like English plural -s and past tense -ed. They are bound morphemes by definition; prefixes and suffixes may be separable affixes. Affixation is, thus, the linguistic process speakers use to form new words (neologisms) by adding morphemes (affixes) at the beginning (prefixation), the middle (infixation) or the end (suffixation) of words.
Amitabh Bachchan: Amitabh Bachchan (born Amitabh Harivansh Bachchan on 11 October 1942), is an Indian film actor. He first gained popularity in the early 1970s as the "angry young man" of Bollywood cinema, and has since become one of the most prominent figures in the history of Indian cinema. Bachchan has won numerous major awards in his career, including three National Film Awards and thirteen Filmfare Awards. He holds the record for most number of Best Actor nominations at the Filmfare Awards.
Allophone: In phonetics, an allophone is a conditioned realization of the same phoneme. A phoneme is an abstract unit of speech sound that can distinguish words: That is, changing a phoneme in a word can produce another word. Speakers of a particular language perceive a phoneme as a distinctive sound in that language. An allophone is not distinctive, but rather a variant of a phoneme; changing the allophone will not change the meaning of a word, but the result may sound non-native, or be unintelligible.
Allegory: Allegory is a figurative mode of representation conveying a meaning other than the literal. Allegory teaches a lesson through symbolism. Allegory communicates its message by means of symbolic figures, actions or symbolic representation. Allegory is generally treated as a figure of rhetoric, but an allegory does not have to be expressed in language: it may be addressed to the eye, and is often found in realistic painting, sculpture or some other form of mimetic, or representative art.
Allotropy: Allotropy (Gr. , "other", and , "manner") or allotropism is a behavior exhibited by some chemical elements: these elements can exist in two or more different forms, known as allotropes of that element. In each allotrope, the element's atoms are bonded together in a different manner. Allotropes are different structural modifications of an element.
Agathocles: Agathocles,, was tyrant of Syracuse (317-289 BC) and king of Sicily (304-289 BC).
Economy of Alberta: Alberta's economy is one of the strongest in Canada, supported by the petroleum industry and, to a lesser extent, agriculture and technology. The per capita GDP in 2007 was by far the highest of any province in Canada at C$74,825 (approx. US$74,000). In 2006 Alberta's per capita GDP was higher than all US states, and one the highest figures in the world . Alberta's per capita GDP in 2007 was 61% higher than the Canadian average of C$46,441 and more than twice that of all the Maritime provinces.
Augustin-Louis Cauchy: Baron Augustin-Louis Cauchy was a French mathematician who was an early pioneer of analysis. He started the project of formulating and proving the theorems of infinitesimal calculus in a rigorous manner. He also gave several important theorems in complex analysis and initiated the study of permutation groups in abstract algebra. A profound mathematician, Cauchy exercised a great influence over his contemporaries and successors.
Antiprism: In geometry, an n-sided antiprism is a polyhedron composed of two parallel copies of some particular n-sided polygon, connected by an alternating band of triangles. Antiprisms are a subclass of the prismatoids. Antiprisms are similar to prisms except the bases are twisted relative to each other, and that the side faces are triangles, rather than quadrilaterals. In the case of a regular n-sided base, one usually considers the case where its copy is twisted by an angle 180/n.
Archimedean solid: In geometry an Archimedean solid is a highly symmetric, semi-regular convex polyhedron composed of two or more types of regular polygons meeting in identical vertices. They are distinct from the Platonic solids, which are composed of only one type of polygon meeting in identical vertices, and from the Johnson solids, whose regular polygonal faces do not meet in identical vertices. The symmetry of the Archimedean solids excludes the members of the dihedral group, the prisms and antiprisms.
Archimedes: Archimedes of Syracuse (c. 287 BC - c. 212 BC) was a Greek mathematician, physicist, engineer, inventor, and astronomer. Although few details of his life are known, he is regarded as one of the leading scientists in classical antiquity. Among his advances in physics are the foundations of hydrostatics, statics and the explanation of the principle of the lever. He is credited with designing innovative machines, including siege engines and the screw pump that bears his name.
Alternative medicine: In Western culture, alternative medicine is any healing practice "that does not fall within the realm of conventional medicine", or "that which has not been shown consistently to be effective. " It is often opposed to evidence based medicine and encompasses therapies with a historical or cultural, rather than a scientific, basis.
Approval voting: Approval voting is a single-winner voting system used for elections. Each voter may vote for (approve of) as many of the candidates as they wish. The winner is the candidate receiving the most votes. Each voter may vote for any combination of candidates and may give each candidate at most one vote. Approval voting is a form of range voting with the range restricted to two values, 0 and 1.
Natural history of Africa: The natural history of Africa encompasses some of the well known megafauna of that continent. Natural history is the study and description of organisms and natural objects, especially their origins, evolution, and interrelationships.
Arizona State University: Arizona State University (also referred to as ASU,or Arizona State) is the largest public research university in the United States under a single administration, with a 2009 student enrollment of 68,064. ASU is spread across four campuses in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area. ASU was founded in 1885 as the Tempe Normal School for the Arizona Territory in Tempe, Arizona. In 1945, the school came under control of the Arizona Board of Regents and was renamed "Arizona State College.
Alfred Jarry: Alfred Jarry (8 September 1873 - 1 November 1907) was a French writer born in Laval, Mayenne, France, not far from the border of Brittany; he was of Breton descent on his mother's side. Best known for his play Ubu Roi (1896), which is often cited as a forerunner to the surrealist theatre of the 1920s and 1930s, Jarry wrote in a variety of genres and styles. He wrote plays, novels, poetry, essays and speculative journalism.
Alarums and Excursions: Alarums and Excursions (A&E), is an amateur press association started in June 1975 by Lee Gold (at the request of Bruce Pelz, who felt that discussion of Dungeons & Dragons was taking up too much space in Apa-L, the APA of the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society). It was the first publication to focus solely on role-playing games.
Astoria Oregon: The city of Astoria is the county seat of Clatsop County, Oregon, United States. Situated near the mouth of the Columbia River, the city was named after the American investor John Jacob Astor. His fur trading company founded Fort Astoria at the site in 1810. Astoria was incorporated by the Oregon Legislative Assembly on October 20, 1876. Located on the south shore of the Columbia, the city is served by the Port of Astoria with a deep-water port.
Amalric I of Jerusalem: Amalric I of Jerusalem (also Amaury or Aimery) (1136 - 11 July 1174) was King of Jerusalem 1162-1174, and Count of Jaffa and Ascalon before his accession. Amalric was the second son of Melisende of Jerusalem and Fulk of Jerusalem. He was the father of three rulers of Jerusalem, the eldest Sibylla of Jerusalem, the second Baldwin IV and then Isabella of Jerusalem, who ruled after the Siege. He was also the father of two other children.
Absalon: Absalon (c. 1128 - 21 March 1201) was a Danish archbishop and statesman. He was the son of Asser Rig of Fjenneslev, at whose castle he and his brother Esbjn (Esbern) were brought up along with the young prince Valdemar, afterwards King Valdemar I.
Amalric II of Jerusalem: Amalric II of Jerusalem or Amalric I of Cyprus, born Amalric of Lusignan (1145 - 1 April 1205), King of Jerusalem 1197-1205, was an older brother of Guy of Lusignan. The Lusignan family was noted for its many Crusaders. Amalric and Guy were sons of Hugh VIII of Lusignan, who had himself campaigned in the Holy Land in the 1160s.
Anthemius of Tralles: Anthemius of Tralles (c. 474 - before 558) (Greek ) was a Greek professor of Geometry in Constantinople (present-day Istanbul in Turkey) and architect, who collaborated with Isidore of Miletus to build the church of Hagia Sophia by the order of Justinian I. Anthemius came from an educated family, one of five sons of Stephanus of Tralles, a physician.
Geography of Africa: Africa is a continent comprising 62 political territories, representing the largest of the great southward projections from the main mass of Earth's surface. It includes, within its remarkably regular outline, an area of 30,368,609 km (11,725,385 sq mi), including adjacent islands.
Adhemar of Le Puy: Adhemar (also known as Adar, Aimar, or Aelarz) de Monteil (died 1 August 1098), one of the principal figures of the First Crusade, was bishop of Puy-en-Velay from before 1087. At the Council of Clermont in 1095, Adhemar showed great zeal for the crusade (there is evidence Urban II had conferred with Adhemar before the council) and having been named apostolic legate and appointed to lead the crusade by Pope Urban II, he accompanied Raymond IV, Count of Toulouse, to the east.
Ambroise: Ambroise (flourished c. 1190) was a Norman poet and chronicler of the Third Crusade, author of a work called L'Estoire de la guerre sainte, which describes in rhyming French verse the adventures of Richard Coeur de Lion as a crusader. The poem is known to us only through one Vatican manuscript, and long escaped the notice of historians.
Alfonso Jordan: Alfonso Jordan was the Count of Tripoli from 1105 until 1109 and thereafter Count of Toulouse (as Alfonso I) until his death. He was the son of Raymond IV of Toulouse by his third wife, Elvira of Castile, was born in the castle of Mont-Pelerin, Tripoli, in today's Lebanon. He was born while his father was on crusade, attempting to create the County of Tripoli on the Palestinian coast. He was surnamed Jordan after being baptised in the Jordan River.
Alfonso Count of Poitou: Alfonso or Alphonse (11 November 1220, Poissy - 21 August 1271) was the Count of Poitou from 1225 and Count of Toulouse (as Alfonso II) from 1247. Alphonse was a son of Louis VIII, King of France and Blanche of Castile. He was a younger brother of Louis IX of France and an older brother of Charles I of Sicily. The Treaty of Paris stipulated that a brother of King Louis was to marry Joan of Toulouse, daughter of Raymond VII of Toulouse, and so in 1237 Alphonse married her.
Art Deco: Art Deco was a popular international art design movement from 1925 until the 1940s, affecting the decorative arts such as architecture, interior design and industrial design, as well as the visual arts such as fashion, painting, the graphic arts and film. At the time, this style was seen as elegant, glamorous, functional and modern.
ASCII art: ASCII art is a graphic design technique that utilizes computers for presentation and consists of pictures pieced together from the 95 printable (from a total of 128) characters defined by the ASCII Standard from 1963 and ASCII compliant character sets with proprietary extended characters (beyond the 128 characters of standard 7-bit ASCII). The term is also loosely used to refer to text based art in general.
Albert Spalding: Albert Goodwill Spalding was a professional baseball player, manager and co-founder of A.G. Spalding sporting goods company.
American English: American English (variously abbreviated AmE, AE, AmEng, USEng, en-US, also known as United States English, or U.S. English) is a set of dialects of the English language used mostly in the United States. Approximately two thirds of native speakers of English live in the United States. English is the most common language in the United States. Though the U.S.
Acquire: Acquire is a board game designed by Sid Sackson. The game was originally published in 1962 by 3M as a part of their bookshelf games series. In most versions, the theme of the game is investing in hotel chains. In the 1990s Hasbro edition, the hotel chains were replaced by generic corporations, though the actual gameplay was unchanged. The game is currently published by Avalon Hill, and the companies are once again hotel chains.
Africa Alphabet: The Africa Alphabet (also International African Alphabet or IAI alphabet) was developed in 1928 under the lead of Diedrich Westermann. He developed it with a group of Africanists at the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures in London. Its aim was to enable people to write all the African languages for practical and scientific purposes without diacritics.
Australian English: Australian English (AusE, AuE, AusEng, en-AU) is the form of the English language spoken in Australia.
Adaptive radiation: In evolutionary biology, an adaptive radiation is the evolution of ecological and phenotypic diversity within a rapidly multiplying lineage. Starting with a recent single ancestor, this process results in the speciation and phenotypic adaptation of an array of species exhibiting different morphological and physiological traits with which they can exploit a range of divergent environments.
Abzyme: An abzyme, also called catmab (from catalytic monoclonal antibody), is a monoclonal antibody with catalytic activity. Molecules which are modified to gain new catalytic activity are called synzymes. Abzymes are usually artificial constructs, but are also found in normal humans (anti-vasoactive intestinal peptide autoantibodies) and in patients with autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus, where they can bind to and hydrolyze DNA.
American Airlines Flight 77: American Airlines Flight 77 was the third flight hijacked as part of the September 11 attacks. It was deliberately crashed into the Pentagon. The flight from Washington Dulles International Airport to Los Angeles International Airport was hijacked by five Islamic extremists less than 35 minutes into the flight. The hijackers stormed the cockpit and forced the passengers to the rear of the aircraft. Hani Hanjour, one of the hijackers who was trained as a pilot, assumed control of the flight.
Ambush: An ambush is a long-established military tactic, in which the aggressors (the ambushing force) use concealment to attack a passing enemy. Ambushers strike from concealed positions, such as among dense underbrush or behind hilltops. Ambushes have been used consistently throughout history, from ancient to modern warfare. An ambush predator is an animal which uses similar tactics to capture prey, without the difficulty and wasted energy of a chase.
Agarose gel electrophoresis: Agarose gel electrophoresis is a method used in biochemistry and molecular biology to separate DNA, or RNA molecules by size. This is achieved by moving negatively charged nucleic acid molecules through an agarose matrix with an electric field. Shorter molecules move faster and migrate farther than longer ones.
Ampicillin: Ampicillin is a beta-lactam antibiotic that has been used extensively to treat bacterial infections since 1961. Until the introduction of ampicillin by the British company, Beecham, penicillin therapies had only been effective against Gram-positive organisms such as Staphylococci and Streptococci. Ampicillin (originally branded as 'Penbritin') also demonstrated activity against Gram-negative organisms such as H. influenzae, coliforms and Proteus spp.
Annealing: Annealing may refer to: Annealing (metallurgy), a heat treatment that alters the microstructure of a material causing changes in properties such as strength and hardness and ductility.
Allele: An allele (from the Greek allelos, meaning each other) is one of a series of different forms of a genetic locus. The word is a short form of allelomorph ('other form'), which was used in the early days of genetics to describe variant forms of a gene detected as different phenotypes. Alleles are now understood to be alternative DNA sequences at the same physical locus, which may or may not result in different phenotypic traits.
Antwerp disambiguation: Antwerp is the name of a city, a district and a province in Flanders, Belgium: Antwerp, city Antwerp (district) Antwerp (province) Antwerp is also the name of a number of places In the United States Antwerp, Ohio Antwerp Township, Michigan Antwerp (village), New York Antwerp (town), New York In Australia Antwerp, Victoria
Autosome: An autosome is a chromosome that is not a sex chromosome - that is to say there are an equal number of copies of the chromosome in males and females. For example, in humans, there are twenty-two pairs of autosomes, and in addition there are X and Y chromosomes which are sex chromosomes.
Antigen: An antigen is a molecule recognized by the immune system. Originally the term came from antibody generator and was a molecule that binds specifically to an antibody, but the term now also refers to any molecule or molecular fragment that can be bound by a major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and presented to a T-cell receptor. "Self" antigens are usually tolerated by the immune system; whereas "Non-self" antigens are identified as intruders and attacked by the immune system.
Antibiotic resistance: Antibiotic resistance is a specific type of drug resistance when a microorganism has the ability of withstanding the effects of antibiotics. Antibiotic resistance evolves via natural selection acting upon random mutation, but it can also be engineered by applying an evolutionary stress on a population. Once such a gene is generated, bacteria can then transfer the genetic information in a horizontal fashion (between individuals) by conjugation, transduction, or transformation.
Aquila: Aquila is the Latin word for eagle and may also refer to: Aquila (constellation), the astronomical constellation The Eagle Aquila (genus), a genus of birds including some eagles Aquila (Roman), a Roman military standard Aquila (of Priscilla and Aquila). They were a prominent New Testament couple who assisted Paul of Tarsus
Alessandro Volta: Count Alessandro Giuseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta (18 February 1745 - 5 March 1827) was an Italian physicist known especially for the development of the first electric cell in 1800.
Argo Navis: Argo Navis (or simply Argo) was a large constellation in the southern sky that has since been divided into three separate constellations. It represented the Argo, the ship used by Jason and the Argonauts in Greek mythology. The abbreviation was "Arg" and the genitive was "Args Navis". Argo Navis is the only one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy that is no longer officially recognised as a constellation.
Al-Qaeda: Al-Qaeda, alternatively spelled Al-Qaida and sometimes Al-Qa'ida, is an Islamist group founded sometime between August 1988 and late 1989. It operates as a network comprising both a multinational, stateless arm and a fundamentalist Sunni movement calling for global jihad. Al-Qaeda has attacked civilian and military targets in various countries, the most notable being the September 11 attacks on New York City and Washington, D.C. in 2001.
Antlia: Antlia is a constellation in the southern sky. Its name means "pump" and it specifically represents an air pump. The stars comprising Antlia are faint, and the constellation was not created until the eighteenth century. Beginning at the north, Antlia is bordered by Hydra the sea snake, Pyxis the compass, Vela the sails, and Centaurus the centaur.
Andromeda mythology: Andromeda was a princess from Greek mythology who, as divine punishment for her mother's bragging, was chained to a rock as a sacrifice to a sea monster. She was saved from death by Perseus, her future husband. Her name is the Latinized form of the Greek (Androm). The etymology of the name is "to think of a man," from (andros) "man" combined with (mdomai) "to think, to be mindful of. " The subject has been popular in art since classical times.
Ara constellation: Ara is a southern constellation situated between Scorpius and Triangulum Australe. Its name is Latin for "altar". Ara was one of Ptolemy's original 48 Greek constellations, and it is now one of the 88 constellations defined by the International Astronomical Union.
Apus: Apus is a faint constellation in the southern sky, first defined in the late sixteenth century. Its name means "no feet" in Greek, and it represents a bird-of-paradise (which were once believed to lack feet). It is bordered by Triangulum Australe, Circinus, Musca, Chamaeleon, Octans, Pavo and Ara. Its genitive is "Apodis".
Atmosphere disambiguation: Atmosphere (< Greek = steam + = sphere) or Atmospheres most commonly refers to: Atmosphere, a layer of gases around a celestial body, such as: Earth's atmosphere Extraterrestrial atmospheres Stellar atmosphere
Auriga: Auriga can refer to: Auriga (constellation), a constellation of stars Auriga (slave), a Roman slave chauffeur HMS Auriga (P419), a British submarine launched in 1945 "Auriga of Delphi", name of the statue "Charioteer of Delphi" USM Auriga, a spaceship in the film Alien Resurrection A Protoss tribe in the computer game StarCraft Auriga (company), a software R&D and IT outsourcing services provider
Attorney: Attorney may refer to: Attorney at law, a lawyer in some countries Attorney general, the principal legal adviser to a government Attorney-in-fact, a person authorised to act on someone else's behalf in a legal or business matter by a power of attorney
Arkansas: Arkansas is a state located in the southern region of the United States. Its name is an Algonquin name of the Quapaw Indians. Arkansas shares a border with six states, with its eastern border largely defined by the Mississippi River. Its diverse geography ranges from the mountainous regions of the Ozarks and the Ouachita Mountains, which make up the U.S. Interior Highlands, to the eastern lowlands along the Mississippi River.
Alexander Fleming: Sir Alexander Fleming (6 August 1881 - 11 March 1955) was a Scottish biologist and pharmacologist. Fleming published many articles on bacteriology, immunology and chemotherapy. His best-known achievements are the discovery of the enzyme lysozyme in 1923 and the antibiotic substance penicillin from the fungus Penicillium notatum in 1928, for which he shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1945 with Howard Walter Florey and Ernst Boris Chain.
Approximant consonant: Approximants are speech sounds that involve the articulators approaching each other but not narrowly enough nor with enough articulatory precision to create turbulent airflow. Approximants therefore fall between fricatives, which do produce a turbulent airstream, and vowels, which produce no turbulence. This class of sounds includes lateral approximants like [l] (as in less), non-lateral approximants like [] (as in rest), and semivowels like [j] and [w] (as in yes and west, respectively).
Astronomer Royal: Astronomer Royal is a senior post in the Royal Household of the Sovereign of the United Kingdom. There are two officers, the senior being the Astronomer Royal dating from 22 June 1675; the second is the Astronomer Royal for Scotland dating from 1834. King Charles II, who founded the Royal Observatory Greenwich in 1675 instructed the first Astronomer Royal John Flamsteed, "...
Andrew Carnegie: Andrew Carnegie (25 November 1835 - 11 August 1919) was a Scottish-American industrialist, businessman, entrepreneur and a major philanthropist. He was one of the most famous leaders of industry of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He emigrated to the United States as a child with his parents. His first job in the United States was as a messenger boy, and he progressed up the ranks of a telegraph company. He built Pittsburgh's Carnegie Steel Company, which was later merged with Elbert H.
Aeon: The word aeon, also spelled eon or n, means "age", "forever" or "for eternity". It is a Latin transliteration from the koine Greek word (aion), from the archaic (aiwon). In Homer it typically refers to life or lifespan, but by at least Hesiod it could refer to ages or generations. It has a similar meaning to the Sanskrit word kalpa and Hebrew word olam. A cognate Latin word aevum or aeuum (cf. ) for "age" is present in words such as longevity and medial.
Abadan Iran: Abadan is a city in the Khuzestan province in southwestern Iran. It lies on Abadan Island (68 km/42 mi long, 3-19 km or 2-12 miles wide, the island is bounded in the west by the Shatt al-Arab waterway and to the east by the Bahmanshir outlet of the Karun River), 53 kilometres (33 mi) from the Persian Gulf, near the Iraqi-Iran border. It is the capital of Abadan County. The civilian population of the city dropped to near zero during the eight-years Iran-Iraq War.
Australian Democrats: The Australian Democrats is an Australian political party espousing a social liberal ideology. It was formed in 1977, by a merger of the Australia Party and the New Liberal Movement, after principals of those minor parties secured the commitment of former minister Don Chipp, as a high profile leader.
Unit of alcohol UK: In the United Kingdom, a unit of alcohol is defined as 10 millilitres (or approximately 8 grams) of ethanol (ethyl alcohol). This is approximately the amount of ethanol an average healthy adult can break down in an hour. It is used as a basis for guidelines on consumption of alcoholic beverages; the number of units contained in a typical drink is publicised and marked on bottles.
Australian Capital Territory: The Australian Capital Territory (ACT) is the capital territory of the Commonwealth of Australia and its smallest self-governing internal territory. It is enclaved within New South Wales, and regularly referred to as Australia's 'Bush Capital'. The need for a National Territory was flagged by colonial delegates during the Federation conventions of the late 19th century.
Airline: An airline provides air transport services for passengers or freight, generally with a recognized operating certificate or license. Airlines lease or own their aircraft with which to supply these services and may form partnerships or alliances with other airlines for mutual benefit. Airlines vary from those with a single aircraft carrying mail or cargo, through full-service international airlines operating hundreds of aircraft.
Aotus: Aotus may refer to: Aotus (pea), one of the plant genera commonly known as golden peas in the family Fabaceae (bean family). Aotus (monkey), the genus of night monkeys in the family Aotidae. The name is derived from the Ancient Greek words for "earless" in both cases: the monkey is missing external ears, and the pea is missing earlike bracteoles.
Andreas Capellanus: Andreas Capellanus (Capellanus meaning "chaplain") was the 12th-century author of a treatise commonly known as De amore ("About Love"), and often known in English, somewhat misleadingly, as The Art of Courtly Love, though its realistic, somewhat cynical tone suggests that it is in some measure an antidote to courtly love.
Ally McBeal: Ally McBeal is an American comedy-drama series which aired on the Fox network from 1997 to 2002. The series was created by David E. Kelley, who also served as the executive producer, along with Bill D'Elia. The series stars Calista Flockhart in the title role as a young lawyer working in the fictional Boston law firm Cage, Fish and Associates with other young lawyers whose lives and loves were eccentric, humorous and dramatic.
American Civil Liberties Union: The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) consists of two separate non-profit organizations: the ACLU Foundation, a 501(c)(3) organization which focuses on litigation and communication efforts, and the American Civil Liberties Union, a 501(c)(4) organization which focuses on legislative lobbying. The ACLU's stated mission is "to defend and preserve the individual rights and liberties guaranteed to every person in this country by the Constitution and laws of the United States.
Andrea Alciato: Andrea Alciato, commonly known as Alciati (Andreas Alciatus) (January 12, 1492 - 1550), was an Italian jurist and writer. He is regarded as the founder of the French school of legal humanists.
Alexander technique: The Alexander technique is an alternative medicine and educational discipline focusing on bodily coordination, including psychological principles of awareness. It is applied for purposes of recovering freedom of movement, in the mastery of performing arts, and for general self-improvement affecting poise, impulse control and attention. The Technique takes its name from F.
Adobe Systems: Adobe Systems Incorporated is an American computer software company headquartered in San Jose, California, USA. The company has historically focused upon the creation of multimedia and creativity software products, with a more-recent foray towards rich Internet application software development. Adobe was founded in December 1982 by John Warnock and Charles Geschke, who established the company after leaving Xerox PARC in order to develop and sell the PostScript page description language.
Apparent magnitude: The apparent magnitude (m) of a celestial body is a measure of its brightness as seen by an observer on Earth, normalized to the value it would have in the absence of the atmosphere. The brighter the object appears, the lower the value of its magnitude.
Absolute magnitude: In astronomy, absolute magnitude (also known as absolute visual magnitude when measured in the standard V phometric band) measures a celestial object's intrinsic brightness. To derive absolute magnitude from the observed apparent magnitude of a celestial object its value is corrected from distance to its observer.
Apollo 10: Apollo 10 was the fourth manned mission in the American Apollo space program. Its purpose was to be a "dry run" for the Apollo 11 mission, testing all of the procedures and components of a Moon landing without actually landing on the Moon itself. The mission included the second crew to orbit the Moon and an all-up test of the lunar module (LM) in lunar orbit. The LM came to within 8.4 nautical miles (15.6 km) of the lunar surface during practice maneuvers.
Apollo 1: Apollo 1 is the official name that was retroactively assigned to the never-flown, first manned Apollo program mission, officially designated as AS-204 (Apollo-Saturn), to be launched from Pad 34 atop a Saturn 1B rocket, on February 21, 1967. The selected crew were: Command Pilot Virgil I. "Gus" Grissom, Senior Pilot Ed White and Pilot Roger B. Chaffee.
Apollo 14: Apollo 14 was the eighth manned mission in the Apollo program and the third mission to land on the Moon. The nine-day mission was launched on January 31, 1971, with lunar touch down on February 5. The Lunar Module landed in the Fra Mauro formation; this had originally been the target of the ill-fated Apollo 13 mission. During the two lunar EVA's over 100 pounds of moon rocks were collected and several surface experiments, including seismic studies, were carried out.
Apollo 12: Apollo 12 was the sixth manned flight in the Apollo program and the second to land on the Moon. The mission was commanded by Charles "Pete" Conrad. It was launched on November 14, 1969, four months after Apollo 11. Conrad and Lunar Module Pilot Alan L. Bean performed just over one day and seven hours of lunar surface activity while Command Module Pilot Richard F Gordon remained in lunar orbit. The landing site for the mission was the Ocean of Storms.
Apollo 15: Apollo 15 was the ninth manned mission in the Apollo program, the fourth mission to land on the Moon and the eighth successful manned mission. It was the first of what were termed "J missions", long duration stays on the Moon with a greater focus on science than had been possible on previous missions. It was also the first mission where the Lunar rover was used. The mission began on July 26, 1971, and concluded on August 7. NASA called it the most successful manned flight ever achieved.
Apollo 17: Apollo 17 was the eleventh manned space mission in the NASA Apollo program. It was the first night launch of a U.S. human spaceflight and the sixth and final lunar landing mission of the Apollo program. The mission was launched at 12:33 a.m. EST on December 7, 1972, and concluded on December 19. It remains the most recent manned moon landing and the most recent manned flight beyond low Earth orbit.
Apollo 16: Apollo 16 was the tenth manned mission in the Apollo program, the fifth mission to land on the Moon and the first to land in a highlands area. The mission was launched on April 16, 1972, and concluded on April 27. It was a J-class mission, featuring a Lunar Rover and it brought back 94.7 kg of lunar samples. It included three lunar EVA: 7.2 hours, 7.4 hours, 5.7 hours and one trans-earth EVA of 1.4. The Apollo 16 subsatellite was launched from the CSM while it was in lunar orbit.
American Revolution: The American Revolution was the political upheaval during the last half of the 18th century in which the Thirteen American Colonies broke free of the British Empire, becoming the United States of America. They first rejected the authority of the Parliament to lay taxes on them without representation, and then expelled all royal officials. By 1774, each colony had established a Provincial Congress or some equivalent governmental institution to form individual self-governing states.
Absorption: Absorption may refer to:
Alan Ayckbourn: Sir Alan Ayckbourn CBE (born 12 April 1939) is a popular and prolific English playwright. He has written and produced seventy-two full-length plays in Scarborough and London and was, between 1972 and 2009, the artistic director of the Stephen Joseph Theatre in Scarborough, where all but four of his plays have received their first performance.
Alpha Centauri: Alpha Centauri ( Centauri / Cen); (also known as Rigil Kentaurus, Rigil Kent, or Toliman) is the binary star system Alpha Centauri AB ( Cen AB), of which Alpha Centauri A ( Cen A) is the brightest star in the southern constellation of Centaurus. To the unaided eye it appears as a single star, whose total visual magnitude would identify it as the third brightest star in the night sky. Alpha Centauri AB is 1.34 parsecs or 4.37 light years away from our Sun.
Actinophryid: The actinophryids are small, familiar group of heliozoan protists. They are the most common heliozoa in fresh water, and are especially frequent in lakes and rivers, but a few are found in marine and soil habitats as well. Each actinophryid are unicellular and roughly spherical in shape, without any shell or test, and with many pseudopodia supported by axopods radiating outward from the cell body, which adhere to passing prey and allows it to roll or float about.
Amiga: The Amiga was a family of personal computers originally developed by Amiga Corporation. Development on the Amiga began in 1982 with Jay Miner as the principal hardware designer. Commodore International bought Amiga Corporation and introduced the machine to the market in 1985.
Abel Tasman: Abel Janszoon Tasman (1603 - 10 October 1659) was a Dutch seafarer, explorer, and merchant. Tasman is best known for his voyages of 1642 and 1644 in the service of the VOC. His was the first known European expedition to reach the islands of Van Diemen's Land and New Zealand and to sight the Fiji islands, which he did in 1643. Tasman, his navigator Visscher, and his merchant Gilsemans also mapped substantial portions of Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
Angula: The word Angula may refer to one of the following: Agula, a measure equal to a finger's breadth Eel, a biological order of fish
ASP: ASP is a three-letter acronym with numerous meanings in different contexts.
Algebraic geometry: Algebraic geometry is a branch of mathematics which combines techniques of abstract algebra, especially commutative algebra, with the language and the problems of geometry. It occupies a central place in modern mathematics and has multiple conceptual connections with such diverse fields as complex analysis, topology and number theory.
Austin Texas: Austin is the capital of the U.S. state of Texas and the seat of Travis County. Located in Central Texas on the eastern edge of the American Southwest, it is the fourth-largest city in Texas and the 15th-largest in the United States. It was the third-fastest-growing large city in the nation from 2000 to 2006. According to the 2009 U.S. Census estimate, Austin had a population of 757,688.
Alvar Aalto: Hugo Alvar Henrik Aalto (February 3 1898, Kuortane - May 11 1976, Helsinki) was a Finnish architect and designer, sometimes called the "Father of Modernism" in the nordic countries. His work includes architecture, furniture, textiles and glassware. Aalto's early career runs in parallel with the rapid economic growth and industrialization of Finland during the first half of the twentieth century and many of his clients were industrialists; among these were the Ahlstr-Gullichsen family.
Argument from morality: The argument from morality is one of many arguments for the existence of God. This argument comes in different forms, all aiming to demonstrate Gods existence from some observations about morality in the world.
Auschwitz concentration camp: Auschwitz was a network of concentration and extermination camps built and operated in occupied Poland by Nazi Germany during the Second World War. It was the largest of the German concentration camps, consisting of Auschwitz I (the Stammlager or main camp); Auschwitz II-Birkenau (the Vernichtungslager or extermination camp); Auschwitz III-Monowitz, also known as Buna-Monowitz (a labor camp); and 45 satellite camps.
Atomic semantics: Atomic Semantics is a term which describes the guarantees provided by a data register shared by several processors in a parallel machine or in a network of computers working together. Atomic semantics are defined for a variable with a single writer but multiple readers.
Archery: Archery is the art, practice, or skill of propelling arrows with the use of a bow. Archery has historically been used for hunting and combat; in modern times, however, its main use is that of a recreational activity. One who practises archery is typically known as an "archer" or "bowman," and one who is fond of or an expert at archery can be referred to as a "toxophilite."
Antarctic Circumpolar Current: The Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC) is an ocean current that flows from west to east around Antarctica. An alternative name for the ACC is the West Wind Drift. The ACC is the dominant circulation feature of the Southern Ocean and, at approximately 125 Sverdrups, the largest ocean current. It keeps warm ocean waters away from Antarctica, enabling that continent to maintain its huge ice sheet.
Arbor Day: Arbor Day (from the Latin feminine noun arbor, simply meaning tree) is a holiday in which individuals and groups are encouraged to plant and care for trees. Arbor Day originated in Nebraska City, Nebraska, United States and is celebrated in a number of countries. It was founded officially by J. Sterling Morton in Nebraska in 1872. By the 1920s each state in the United States had passed public laws that stipulated a certain day to be Arbor Day or Arbor and Bird Day observance.
American and British English differences: This is one of a series of articles about the differences between American English and British English, which, for the purposes of these articles, are defined as follows: American English (AmE) is the form of English used in the United States. It includes all English dialects used within the United States of America. British English (BrE) is the form of English used in the United Kingdom. It includes all English dialects used within the United Kingdom.
Andr Weil: Andr Weil (6 May 1906 - 6 August 1998) was an influential mathematician of the 20th century, renowned for the breadth and quality of his research output, its influence on future work, and the elegance of his exposition. He is especially known for his foundational work in number theory and algebraic geometry. He was a founding member and the de facto early leader of the influential Bourbaki group. The philosopher Simone Weil was his sister.
Alfred Jules Ayer: Sir Alfred Jules Ayer (29 October 1910 - 27 June 1989), better known as A. J. Ayer or "Freddie" to friends, was a British philosopher known for his promotion of logical positivism, particularly in his books Language, Truth and Logic (1936) and The Problem of Knowledge (1956). Ayer was the Grote Professor of the Philosophy of Mind and Logic at University College London from 1946 until 1959, when he became Wykeham Professor of Logic at the University of Oxford.
Atle Selberg: Atle Selberg (14 June 1917 - 6 August 2007) was a Norwegian mathematician known for his work in analytic number theory, and in the theory of automorphic forms, in particular bringing them into relation with spectral theory. He was awarded the Fields Medal in 1950.
Achaeans Homer: The Achaeans is one of the collective names used for the Greeks in Homer's Iliad (used 598 times) and Odyssey. The other names are the Danaans (, Danaoi used 138 times in the Iliad) and the Argives (, used 29 times in the Iliad).
Aeschylus: Aeschylus was an ancient Greek playwright. He is often recognized as the father of tragedy, and is the earliest of the three Greek tragedians whose plays survive, the others being Sophocles and Euripides. According to Aristotle, he expanded the number of characters in plays to allow for conflict among them; previously, characters interacted only with the chorus.
Crandall University: Crandall University is a small Liberal Arts university located in Moncton, New Brunswick, Canada. Crandall is operated by the Convention of Atlantic Baptist Churches.
Amber Road: The Amber Road was an ancient trade route for the transfer of amber. As one of the waterways and ancient highways, for centuries the road led from Europe to Asia and back, and from northern Africa to the Mediterranean Sea. An important raw material, amber was transported from the North Sea and Baltic Sea coasts overland by way of the Vistula and Dnieper rivers to Italy, Greece, the Black Sea, and Egypt thousands of years ago, and long after.
Andrew Wiles: Sir Andrew John Wiles KBE FRS (born 11 April 1953) is a British mathematician and a professor at Princeton University, specializing in number theory. He is most famous for proving Fermat's Last Theorem.
Delian League: The so-called Delian League was an association of 173 5th-century BC Greek city-states under the leadership of Athens, whose purpose was to continue fighting the Persian Empire after the Greek victory in the Battle of Plataea at the end of the Greco-Persian Wars. Founded in 478 BC, the League's modern name derives from its official meeting place, the island of Delos, where congresses were held in the temple and where the treasury stood until Pericles moved it to Athens in 454 BC.
Acting: Acting is the work of an actor or actress, which is a person in theatre, television, film, or any other storytelling medium who tells the story by portraying a character and, usually, speaking or singing the written text or play. Most early sources in the West that examine the art of acting discuss it as part of rhetoric. While there is a set definition for the word "acting", there is no set definition for the phrase "to act".
Anne Bront: Anne Bront (17 January 1820 - 28 May 1849) was a British novelist and poet, the youngest member of the Bront literary family. The daughter of a poor Irish clergyman in the Church of England, Anne Bront lived most of her life with her family at the small parish of Haworth on the Yorkshire moors. For a couple of years she went to a boarding school. At the age of nineteen, she left Haworth working as a governess between 1839 and 1845.
August Horch: August Horch (12 October 1868 - 3 February 1951) was a German engineer and automobile pioneer, the founder of the manufacturing giant which would eventually become Audi.
Augustine of Hippo: Augustine of Hippo (November 13, 354 - August 28, 430), Bishop of Hippo Regius, also known as Augustine, St. Augustine, or St. Austin was a Romanized Berber philosopher and theologian. Augustine, a Latin church father, is one of the most important figures in the development of Western Christianity. He "established anew the ancient faith" (conditor antiquae rursum fidei), according to his contemporary, Jerome.
Avionics: Avionics is a portmanteau of "aviation electronics". It comprises electronic systems for use on aircraft, artificial satellites and spacecraft, comprising communications, navigation and the display and management of multiple systems. It also includes the hundreds of systems that are fitted to aircraft to meet individual roles; these can be as simple as a search light for a police helicopter or as complicated as the tactical system for an Airborne Early Warning platform.
Alcoholics Anonymous: Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) is a worldwide mutual aid society self-decribed as a fellowship of men and women with a desire to stop drinking alcohol while helping others to do so through a program of character development by following its invention, the Twelve Steps. AA was started by two Americans, Bill Wilson and Dr. Bob Smith (commonly known as Bill W. and Dr. Bob), but its intentionally broad philosophy has aided AA in spreading "across diverse cultures holding different beliefs and values.
Ares: Ares is a major deity and a member of the Twelve Olympians, a son of Zeus and Hera, in Greek mythology. Though often referred to as the Olympian god of warfare, he is more accurately the god of bloodlust, or slaughter personified: "Ares is apparently an ancient abstract noun meaning throng of battle, war. " He also presides over the weapons of war, the defence and sacking of cities, rebellion and civil order, banditry, manliness and courage.
Alexander Grothendieck: Alexander Grothendieck (born March 28, 1928 in Berlin, Germany) is one of the most influential mathematicians of the twentieth century. He is known principally for his revolutionary advances in algebraic geometry, but also for major contributions to algebraic topology, number theory, category theory, Galois theory, descent theory, commutative and homological algebra, and functional analysis.
Alpha compositing: In computer graphics, alpha compositing is the process of combining an image with a background to create the appearance of partial transparency. It is often useful to render image elements in separate passes, and then combine the resulting multiple 2D images into a single, final image in a process called compositing. For example, compositing is used extensively when combining computer rendered image elements with live footage.
Advance Australia Fair: "Advance Australia Fair" is the official national anthem of Australia. Created by the Scottish-born composer, Peter Dodds McCormick, the song was first performed in 1878, but did not gain its status as the official anthem until 1984. Until then, the song was sung in Australia as a patriotic song. In order for the song to become the anthem, it had to face a vote between the Royal anthem God Save the Queen, the "unofficial anthem" Waltzing Matilda and Song of Australia.
Amerigo Vespucci: Amerigo Vespucci (Florence, March 9, 1454 - Seville, February 22, 1512) was an Italian explorer, navigator and cartographer. The continent of America is popularly believed to have derived its name from the feminized Latin version of his first name.
Automatic number announcement circuit: An automatic number announcement circuit (ANAC) is a special telephone number that is meant to be used by phone company technicians and other telecommunications technicians to determine the phone number of a particular line. The way an ANAC works is fairly simple. A technician will call a local ANAC's phone number. This number connects to a computer at a local central office, which uses a voice synthesizer or digital samples to "speak" the phone number of the line calling in.
Array data structure: In computer science, an array data structure or simply array is a data structure consisting of a collection of elements, each identified by one or more integer indices, stored so that the address of each element can be computed from its index tuple by a simple mathematical formula.
Aristide Maillol: Aristide Maillol or Aristides Maillol (December 8, 1861 - September 27, 1944) was a French Catalan sculptor and painter.
Antonio Canova: Antonio Canova (1 November 1757 - 13 October 1822) was an Italian sculptor who became famous for his marble sculptures that delicately rendered nude flesh. The epitome of the neoclassical style, his work marked a return to classical refinement after the theatrical excesses of Baroque sculpture.
Auguste Rodin: Auguste Rodin (born Franis-Auguste-Ren Rodin; 12 November 1840 - 17 November 1917) was a French sculptor. Although Rodin is generally considered the progenitor of modern sculpture, he did not set out to rebel against the past. He was schooled traditionally, took a craftsman-like approach to his work, and desired academic recognition, although he was never accepted into Paris's foremost school of art.
Act of Settlement 1701: The Act of Settlement is an act of the Parliament of England, originally filed in 1700, and passed in 1701, to settle the succession to the English throne on the Electress Sophia of Hanovera granddaughter of James Iand her Protestant heirs. The act was later extended to Scotland as a result of the Treaty of Union (Article II), enacted in the Acts of Union 1707 before it was ever needed, and further through the expansion of the British Empire.
Aircraft hijacking: Aircraft hijacking (also known as skyjacking and sky controlling) is the unlawful seizure of an aircraft either by an individual or by a group. In most cases, the pilot is forced to fly according to the orders of the hijackers. However, there have been cases where the hijackers have flown the aircraft themselves. In at least one case, a plane was hijacked by the official pilot. Unlike the hijacking of land vehicles or ships, skyjacking is usually not perpetrated in order to rob the cargo.
Acropolis of Athens: The Acropolis of Athens is the best known acropolis (Gr. akros, akron, edge, extremity + polis, city, pl. acropoleis) in the world. Although there are many other acropoleis in Greece, the significance of the Acropolis of Athens is such that it is commonly known as The Acropolis without qualification. The Acropolis was formally proclaimed as the pre-eminent monument on the European Cultural Heritage list of monuments on 26 March 2007.
Ann Arbor Michigan: Ann Arbor is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan and the county seat of Washtenaw County. As of the 2000 Census, the city had a population of 114,024, of which 36,892 (32%) are university or college students. The 2008 Census Bureau Estimate places the population at 114,386, making it the fifth largest city in Michigan. The city is part of the Detroit - Ann Arbor - Flint, MI CSA.
Adam Weishaupt: Johann Adam Weishaupt (February 6, 1748 in Ingolstadt - November 18, 1830 in Gotha) was a German philosopher and founder of the Order of Illuminati, a secret society with origins in Bavaria.
Aeronautics: Aeronautics (from Greek r which means "air" and nautik which means "navigation, seamanship", i.e. "navigation of the air") is the science involved with the study, design, and manufacture of flight-capable machines, or the techniques of operating aircraft. While the termliterally meaning "sailing the air"originally referred solely to the science of operating the aircraft, it has since been expanded to include technology, business and other aspects related to aircraft.
Acorn Electron: The Acorn Electron is a budget version of the BBC Micro educational/home computer made by Acorn Computers Ltd. It has 32 kilobytes of RAM, and its ROM includes BBC BASIC along with its operating system. The Electron was able to save and load programs onto audio cassette via a supplied converter cable that connected it to any standard tape recorder that had the correct sockets.
Auguste and Louis Lumi re: The Lumie brothers, Auguste Marie Louis Nicolas and Louis Jean, were among the earliest filmmakers. (Appropriately, "lumie" translates as "light" in English.)
A Fire Upon the Deep: A Fire Upon the Deep is a science fiction novel by American writer Vernor Vinge, a space opera involving superhuman intelligences, aliens, variable physics, space battles, love, betrayal, genocide, and a conversation medium resembling Usenet. A Fire Upon the Deep won the Hugo Award in 1993. Besides the normal print book editions, the novel was also included on a CD-ROM sold by ClariNet Communications along with the other nominees for the 1993 Hugo awards.
Ark: Ark may refer to:
Abijah: Abijah or Abiah or Abia is a Biblical unisex name meaning Aviya or "my Father is Yahweh" in Hebrew. In the Old Testament the name Abijah was borne by several characters: A son of Becher, the son of Benjamin. A wife of Hetzron, one of the grandchildren of Judah. The second son of Samuel.
Acts of the Apostles: The Acts of the Apostles, usually referred to simply as Acts, is the fifth book of the New Testament; Acts outlines the history of the Apostolic Age. The author is traditionally identified as Luke the Evangelist.
Aphasia: Aphasia is an acquired language disorder in which there is an impairment of any language modality. This may include difficulty in producing or comprehending spoken or written language. Traditionally, aphasia suggests the total impairment of language ability, and dysphasia a degree of impairment less than total. However, the term dysphasia is easily confused with dysphagia, a swallowing disorder, and thus aphasia has come to mean both partial and total language impairment in common use.
Aorta: The aorta (from Greek - aort, from - aeir "I lift, raise") is the largest artery in the body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and extends down to the abdomen, where it branches off into two smaller arteries. The aorta distributes oxygenated blood to all parts of the body though the systemic circulation.
Assyria: Assyria was a civilization centered on the Upper Tigris river, in Mesopotamia, that came to rule regional empires a number of times through history. It was named for its original capital, the ancient city of Assur . The term Assyria can also refer to the geographic region or heartland where these empires were centered. During the Old Assyrian period (20th to 15th centuries BCE), Assur controlled much of Upper Mesopotamia and parts of Asia Minor.
Andrew Tridgell: Andrew "Tridge" Tridgell (born 28 February 1967) is an Australian computer programmer best known as the author of and contributor to the Samba file server, and co-inventor of the rsync algorithm. He is known for his analysis of complex proprietary protocols and algorithms, to allow compatible free and open source software implementations. Tridgell is able to speak English, Swedish, and German..
Asterix: The Adventures of Asterix is a series of French comic books written by Ren Goscinny and illustrated by Albert Uderzo (Uderzo also took over the job of writing the series after the death of Goscinny in 1977). The series first appeared in French in the magazine Pilote on 29 October 1959. As of 2009, 34 comic books in the series have been released. The series follows the exploits of a village of ancient Gauls as they resist Roman occupation.
Abimelech: Abimelech or Avimelech was a common name of the Philistine kings. Abimelech was most prominently the name of a king of Gerar who is mentioned in two of the three wife-sister narratives in Genesis. The Haggada identifies them as separate people, the second being the first Abimelech's son, and that his original name was Benmelech ("son of the King") but changed his name to his father's. At the time of Abimelech, there was an Egyptian governor of Tyre named Abimilki.
Applesoft BASIC: Applesoft BASIC was a dialect of BASIC supplied on the Apple II computer, superseding Integer BASIC. Applesoft BASIC was supplied by Microsoft and its name is derived from the names of both Apple and Microsoft. Apple employees, including Randy Wigginton, adapted Microsoft's interpreter for the Apple II and added several features. The first version of Applesoft was released in 1977 only on cassette tape and lacked proper support for high-resolution graphics.
Arizona Cardinals: The Arizona Cardinals are a professional American Football team based in Tempe, Arizona. They play their home games in Glendale, Arizona. The Cardinals are members of the Western Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Cardinals were founded in 1898, and are the oldest continuously run professional American football club in the United States. The team was established in Chicago in 1898 and was a charter member of the NFL in 1920.
Ansible: An ansible is a hypothetical machine capable of instantaneous or superluminal communication. Ansibles are used as plot devices in science fiction literature.
Atlanta Falcons: The Atlanta Falcons are an American professional American football team based in Atlanta, Georgia. They are currently a member of the NFC South division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Falcons joined the NFL in 1965 as an expansion team, after the NFL offered then-owner Rankin Smith a franchise to keep him from joining the rival American Football League. The AFL instead granted a franchise to Miami.
 satr in the United States: atr in the United States is a form of Germanic Neopaganism, in particular inspired by the Norse paganism as described in the Eddas and as practiced prior to the Christianization of Scandinavia. There are three national organizations of Nordic Paganism in the United States, atr Alliance, atr Folk Assembly and The Troth, besides numerous smaller or regional associations.
Associative algebra: In mathematics, an associative algebra is a module which also allows the multiplication of vectors in a distributive and associative manner. They are thus a special case of algebras over commutative rings. Sometimes, but not always, associative algebras are assumed to have a multiplicative unit, denoted 1. To make this extra assumption clear, one may call these associative unital algebras.
Adalbert of Prague: Saint Adalbert, Czech: Vojtch; Polish: Wojciech, (c. 956 - April 23, 997), a bishop of Prague, missionary, was martyred in his efforts to convert the Baltic Prussians. He was later made the patron saint of Bohemia, Poland, Hungary, and Prussia.
 lfheah of Canterbury: fheah, officially remembered by the name Alphege within the Church, and sometimes called Alfege, was an Anglo-Saxon Bishop of Winchester, later Archbishop of Canterbury. He became an anchorite before being elected abbot of Bath Abbey. His perceived piety and sanctity led to his promotion to the episcopate, and eventually to his becoming archbishop. fheah furthered the cult of St Dunstan and also encouraged learning.
Axiom of regularity: In mathematics, the axiom of regularity (also known as the axiom of foundation) is one of the axioms of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory and was introduced by Mirimanoff (1917) and von Neumann (1925). In first-order logic the axiom reads: Or in prose: Every non-empty set A contains an element B which is disjoint from A. Two results which follow from the axiom are that "no set is an element of itself," and that "there is no infinite sequence (an) such that ai+1 is an element of ai for all i.
Apple II series: The Apple II (often rendered Apple ][ or Apple //) was one of the first highly successful mass produced microcomputer products, designed primarily by Steve Wozniak, manufactured by Apple Computer and introduced in 1977.
AppleTalk: AppleTalk is a proprietary suite of protocols developed by Apple Inc. for networking computers. It was included in the original Macintosh released in 1984, and is now unsupported with the release of Mac OS X v10.6 in 2009 in favor of TCP/IP networking. AppleTalk's Datagram Delivery Protocol corresponds closely to the Network layer of the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) communication model.
IBM AIX: AIX (Advanced Interactive eXecutive) is the name given to a series of proprietary operating systems sold by IBM for several of its computer system platforms, based on UNIX System V with 4.3BSD-compatible command and programming interface extensions. AIX runs on 32-bit or 64-bit IBM POWER or PowerPC CPUs (depending on version) and can address up to 32 terabytes (TB) of random access memory.
Apple III: The Apple III (often rendered as Apple ///) is a personal computer that was manufactured and sold by Apple. Intended as a computer for the business user market, design work on the Apple III started in late 1978 under the guidance of Dr. Wendell Sander. It had the internal code name of "Sara", named after Sander's daughter. The model was first announced on May 19, 1980, and started shipping the following autumn. It was discontinued on April 24, 1984.
AVL tree: In computer science, an AVL tree is a self-balancing binary search tree, and it is the first such data structure to be invented. In an AVL tree, the heights of the two child subtrees of any node differ by at most one; therefore, it is also said to be height-balanced. Lookup, insertion, and deletion all take O(log n) time in both the average and worst cases, where n is the number of nodes in the tree prior to the operation.
Abyssinia: Abyssinia may refer to the Ethiopian Empire that consisted of modern Ethiopia. Abyssinia may also refer to: SS Abyssinia, 1870 Canadian Pacific steamship HMS Abyssinia (1870), British armoured ship Abyssinia, Henry, 1975 episode of the M*A*S*H television series "Abyssinia", 1976 song by Patti Smith Group, from the album Radio Ethiopia Abyssinia (musical), 1987 musical Abyssinia (battle honour)
Algebraic extension: In abstract algebra, a field extension L/K is called algebraic if every element of L is algebraic over K, i.e. if every element of L is a root of some non-zero polynomial with coefficients in K. Field extensions which are not algebraic, i.e. which contain transcendental elements, are called transcendental.
Astrology: Astrology is a group of systems, traditions, and beliefs which hold that the relative positions of celestial bodies and related details can provide information about personality, human affairs, and other terrestrial matters. A practitioner of astrology is called an astrologer. Astrologers believe that the movements and positions of celestial bodies either directly influence life on Earth or correspond to events experienced on a human scale.
Aliphatic compound: In organic chemistry, compounds composed of carbon and hydrogen are divided into two classes: aromatic compounds, which contain benzene rings or similar rings of atoms, and aliphatic compounds (G. aleiphar, fat, oil), which do not contain aromatic rings. Aliphatic compounds can be cyclic, like cyclohexane, or acyclic, like hexane. They also can be saturated, like hexane, or unsaturated, like hexene.
Arene disambiguation: Arene or Arn or Are may refer to: an aromatic hydrocarbon Arene (mythology), the wife of Aphareus and mother of Idas and Lynceus in Greek mythology Arene, Elis, an ancient Greek town in Elis, Greece known also as Makistos, Samia or Samikon Arene (surname), a French family name of the Provence region
Ani DiFranco: Ani DiFranco (born Angela Maria DiFranco on September 23, 1970) is an American Grammy Award-winning singer, guitarist, and songwriter. She is a prolific artist, having released over twenty albums, and is widely celebrated as a feminist icon.
Aesthetics: Aesthetics (also spelled thetics or esthetics) is a branch of philosophy dealing with the nature of beauty, art, and taste, and with the creation and appreciation of beauty. It is more scientifically defined as the study of sensory or sensori-emotional values, sometimes called judgments of sentiment and taste. More broadly, scholars in the field define aesthetics as "critical reflection on art, culture and nature.
Arizona Diamondbacks: The Arizona Diamondbacks are a professional baseball team based in Phoenix, Arizona. They play in the West Division of Major League Baseball's National League. From 1998 to the present, they have played in Chase Field (formerly Bank One Ballpark). Also known as the D-backs and Snakes, Arizona has one World Series title, in 2001, becoming one of the fastest teams in the majors to win a championship, doing it in only 3 years since their expansion in 1998.
Angles: The Angles is a modern English word for a Germanic-speaking people who took their name from the ancestral cultural region of Angeln, a district located in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. The Angles were one of the main groups that settled in Britain in the post-Roman period, founding several of the kingdoms of Anglo-Saxon England, and their name is the root of the name "England".
List of animated television series: This is a list of animated television series. Animated television series are television programs produced by means of animation. This list does not feature animated theatrical short series as those were produced for theaters. This list includes compilation series of theatrical shorts such as The Bugs Bunny Show since they often feature new wrap-around animation.
Aster CT-80: The Aster CT-80, an early home/personal computer developed by the small Dutch company MCP (later renamed to Aster Computers), was sold in its first incarnation as a kit for hobbyists. Later it was sold ready to use. It consisted of several Eurocard PCB's with DIN 41612 connectors, and a backplane all based on a 19-inch rack configuration. It was the first commercially available Dutch personal/home computer. .
Ark of the Covenant: The Ark of the Covenant is a vessel described in the Bible as containing the Tablets of Stone on which the Ten Commandments were inscribed, along with Aaron's rod and manna. According to the Pentateuch, the Ark was built at the command of God, in accord with Moses' prophetic vision on Mount Sinai. God was said to have communicated with Moses "from between the two cherubim" on the Ark's cover. The Ark and its sanctuary were considered "the beauty of Israel".
List of artificial intelligence projects: The following is a list of current and past notable artificial intelligence projects.
Atari ST: The Atari ST is a home/personal computer that was commercially available from 1985 to the early 1990s. It was released by Atari Corporation in 1985. The "ST" officially stands for "Sixteen/Thirty-two", which referred to the Motorola 68000's 16-bit external bus and 32-bit internals.
Aaliyah: Aaliyah Dana Haughton (January 16, 1979 - August 25, 2001), who performed under the mononym Aaliyah, was an American recording artist, actress and model. She was born in Brooklyn, New York, and was raised in Detroit, Michigan. At an early age, she appeared on the television show Star Search and performed in concert alongside Gladys Knight. At age 12, Aaliyah was signed to Jive Records and Blackground Records by her uncle, Barry Hankerson. He introduced her to R.
Armoured fighting vehicle: An armoured fighting vehicle (AFV) is a military vehicle, protected by armour and armed with weapons. AFVs can be wheeled or tracked. Armoured fighting vehicles are classified according to their intended role on the battlefield and characteristics. This classification is not absolute; at different times different countries will classify the same vehicle in different roles.
Armour: Armour or armor is protective covering used to prevent damage from being inflicted to an individual or a vehicle through use of direct contact weapons or projectiles, usually during combat, or from damage caused by a potentionally dangerous environment or action Personal armour is used to protect soldiers, war animals such as war horses (the application for the latter called barding). Vehicle armour is used on things such as warships and armoured fighting vehicles.
Atlanta Braves: The Atlanta Braves are a professional baseball team based in Atlanta, Georgia. The Braves are a member of the Eastern Division of Major League Baseball's National League. From 1997 to the present, the Braves have played in Turner Field. The "Braves" name, which was first used in 1912, originates from a term for a Native American warrior.
Academic elitism: Academic elitism is a charge sometimes levied at academic institutions and academics more broadly; use of the term "ivory tower" often carries with it an implicit critique of academic elitism. Criticism of perceived academic elitism may or may not target intellectuals in general, academic institutions or education itself, but always targets present leadership, practices and/or policies in academia.
All Quiet on the Western Front: All Quiet on the Western Front is a novel by Erich Maria Remarque, a German veteran of World War I. The book describes the German soldiers' extreme physical and mental duress during the war, and the detachment from civilian life felt by many of these soldiers upon returning home from the front. The novel was first published in November and December 1928 in the German newspaper Vossische Zeitung and in book form in late January 1929.
Anton Drexler: Anton Drexler (13 June 1884 - 24 February 1942) was a German Nazi political leader of the 1920s. Born in Munich, Drexler was a machine-fitter before becoming a railway locksmith in Berlin in 1902. He joined the Fatherland Party during World War I. He was a poet and a member of the vkisch agitators who, together with journalist Karl Harrer, founded the German Workers' Party (DAP) in Munich with Gottfried Feder and Dietrich Eckart in 1919.
African American: African Americans (also referred to as Black Americans or Afro-Americans) are citizens or residents of the United States who have origins in any of the black populations of Africa. In the United States, the terms are generally used for Americans with at least partial Sub-Saharan African ancestry.
Artistic License: The Artistic License refers most commonly to the original Artistic License (version 1.0), a software license used for certain free and open source software packages, most notably the standard Perl implementation and most CPAN modules, which are dual-licensed under the Artistic License and the GNU General Public License (GPL). The original Artistic License was written by Larry Wall. The name of the license is a reference to the concept of artistic license.
Afrikaans: Afrikaans is a Germanic language originating from the Dutch spoken by settlers in the seventeenth century and thus is classified as Low Franconian West Germanic. Aside from English, Afrikaans deviates the farthest from the grammars of the other Germanic languages.
ABC: ABC are the first three letters of the Latin alphabet. It may refer to:
Alford plea: Alford plea (also referred to as Alford guilty plea and Alford doctrine) in the law of the United States is a guilty plea in criminal court, where the defendant does not admit the act and asserts innocence. Under the Alford plea the defendant admits that sufficient evidence exists with which the prosecution could likely convince a judge or jury to find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.
ABCD: ABCD is a list of the first four letters in the English alphabet.
Aeolus: Aeolus was the ruler of the winds in Greek mythology. In truth, the name was shared by three mythic characters. These personages are often difficult to tell apart, and even the ancient mythographers appear to have been perplexed about which Aeolus was which. Diodorus Siculus made an attempt to define each, and his opinion is followed here.
Anti-realism: In philosophy, the term anti-realism is used to describe any position involving either the denial of an objective reality of entities of a certain type or the denial that verification-transcendent statements about a type of entity are either true or false. This latter construal is sometimes expressed by saying "there is no fact of the matter as to whether or not P.
Arsenal F.C.: Arsenal Football Club (often simply known as Arsenal or The Arsenal, or by their nickname The Gunners) are an English professional football club based in Holloway, North London. They play in the Premier League and are one of the most successful clubs in English football, having won 13 First Division and Premier League titles and 10 FA Cups.
Cuisine of the United States: The cuisine of the United States is a style of food preparation derived from the United States of America. The cuisine has a history dating back before the colonial period when the American Indians had a rich and diverse cooking style for an equally diverse amount of ingredients. With European colonization, the style of cookery changed vastly, with numerous ingredients introduced from Europe, as well as cooking styles and modern cookbooks.
Ahmad Shah Massoud: Ahmad Shah Massoud ( - Amad h Masd; September 1953 - September 9, 2001) was a Kabul University engineering student turned military leader who played a leading role in driving the Soviet army out of Afghanistan, earning him the nickname Lion of Panjshir. His followers call him mir Shib-e Shahd (Our Martyred Commander). An ethnic Tajik, Massoud was a moderate of the anti-Soviet resistance leaders.
Autobiography: An autobiography (from the Greek, -autos self + -bios life + -graphein to write) is a book about the life of a person, written by that person.
Arcadius: Flavius Arcadius (377/378-1 May 408) was Roman Emperor in the Eastern half of the Roman Empire from 395 until his death.
Atlantis: Atlantis is a legendary island first mentioned in Plato's dialogues Timaeus and Critias. In Plato's account, Atlantis was a naval power lying "in front of the Pillars of Hercules" that conquered many parts of Western Europe and Africa 9,000 years before the time of Solon, or approximately 9600 BC. After a failed attempt to invade Athens, Atlantis sank into the ocean "in a single day and night of misfortune".
Armadillo: Armadillos are small placental mammals, known for having a leathery armor shell. The Dasypodidae are the only surviving family in the order Cingulata, part of the superorder Xenarthra along with the anteaters and sloths. The word armadillo is Spanish for "little armored one". There are approximately 10 extant genera and around 20 extant species of armadillo, some of which are distinguished by the number of bands on their armor.
Arab people: Arab people or Arabs ( al-arab) are a panethnicity of peoples of various ancestral origins, religious backgrounds and historic identities, whose members, on an individual basis, identify as such on one or more of linguistic, cultural, political, or genealogical grounds. Those self-identifing as Arab, however, rarely do so on their own.
Antisemitism in the Arab world: Antisemitism in the Arab world refers to discrimination against Jews. While Arabs are also a Semitic people, the modern meaning of the English term "antisemitism" refers exclusively to discrimination against Jews. Arab antisemitism is believed to have expanded since the 19th century. Jews, like other minority groups within the Muslim world, were subject to various restrictions long before that.
Arcology: Arcology, a portmanteau of the words "architecture" and "ecology," is a set of architectural design principles aimed toward the design of enormous habitats (hyperstructures) of extremely high human population density. These largely hypothetical structures would contain a variety of residential and commercial facilities and minimize individual human environmental impact. They are often portrayed as self-contained or economically self-sufficient.
Amstrad CPC: The Amstrad CPC (short for Colour Personal Computer) is a series of 8 bit home computers produced by Amstrad between 1984 and 1990. It was designed to compete in the mid-1980s home computer market dominated by the Commodore 64 and the Sinclair ZX Spectrum, where it successfully established itself, especially in the United Kingdom, France, Spain, and the German-speaking parts of Europe.
Abdulaziz al-Omari: An airport security guard and Imam, Abdulaziz al-Omari (May 28, 1979 - September 11, 2001) was named by the FBI as one of the hijackers of the first plane which was crashed into the World Trade Center in the September 11 attacks.
Analytic geometry: Analytic geometry, also known as coordinate geometry, analytical geometry, or Cartesian geometry, is the study of geometry using a coordinate system and the principles of algebra and analysis. This contrasts with the synthetic approach of Euclidean geometry, which treats certain geometric notions as primitive, and uses deductive reasoning based on axioms and theorems to derive truth.
Angels in art: Angels have appeared in works of art for millennia. Angel-shaped beings appear in ancient Mesopotamian and Greek art and were probably the inspiration for the popular Christian image of angels. Angels remained a popular subject for Byzantine and European paintings and sculpture. Angels have also become an integral part of Anime culture, particularly in fan art and webcomics.
Arctic Fox: The Arctic Fox (Alopex lagopus or Vulpes lagopus), also known as the White Fox, Polar Fox or Snow Fox, is a small fox native to cold Arctic regions of the Northern Hemisphere and is common throughout the Arctic tundra biome. Although it is often assigned to its own genus Alopex, Mammal Species of the World, as well as genetic evidence places it in Vulpes with the majority of the other foxes.
Arabic alphabet: The Arabic alphabet or Arabic abjad is the script used for writing several languages of Asia and Africa, such as Arabic and Urdu. After the Latin alphabet, it is the second-most widely used alphabet around the world. The alphabet was first used to write texts in Arabic, most notably the Quran, the holy book of Islam.
Aage Bohr: Aage Niels Bohr (19 June 1922 - 8 September 2009) was a Danish nuclear physicist and Nobel laureate, and the son of Niels and Margrethe Bohr.
Folklore of the United States: The folklore of the United States, or American folklore, is one of the folk traditions which has evolved on the North American continent since Europeans arrived in the 16th century. While it contains much in the way of Native American tradition, it should not be confused with the tribal beliefs of any community of native people. American folklore covers the same broad categories as the folklore of other nations.
Anglo-Saxon disambiguation: Anglo-Saxon may refer to: historically, the Anglo-Saxons, a group of Germanic peoples inhabiting parts of England during the early Middle Ages their language, commonly referred to as Old English anything pertaining to the History of Anglo-Saxon England contemporarily, referring to the Anglosphere ethnically, referring to English speakers of British Isles ancestry in particular, see White Anglo-Saxon Protestant (WASP) Anglo-Saxon economy (economic model)
Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri: Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri (sometimes abbreviated to SMAC or Alpha Centauri) is a 4X turn-based strategic computer game created by Brian Reynolds and Sid Meier under the auspices of Firaxis Games in 1998. It is based on a fictional attempt by human beings to colonize a planet in the Alpha Centauri star system. It picks up where Meier and Reynolds' earlier titles, Civilization I and Civilization II, left off.
Abu Sayyaf: Abu Sayyaf also known as al-Harakat al-Islamiyya is one of several military Islamist separatist groups based in and around the southern Philippines, in Bangsamoro where for almost 30 years various Muslim groups have been engaged in an insurgency for an independent province in the country. The name of the group is derived from the Arabic , abu ("father of") and sayyaf ("Swordsmith"). The group calls itself "Al-Harakat Al-Islamiyya" or the "Islamic Movement".
Aircraft carrier: An aircraft carrier is a warship designed with a primary mission of deploying and recovering aircraft, acting as a seagoing airbase. Aircraft carriers thus allow a naval force to project air power great distances without having to depend on local bases for staging aircraft operations. They have evolved from wooden vessels, used to deploy balloons, into nuclear powered warships that carry dozens of fixed and rotary wing aircraft.
Armenian language: The Armenian language is an Indo-European language spoken by the Armenian people. It is the official language of the Republic of Armenia as well as in the region of Nagorno-Karabakh. The language is also widely spoken by Armenian communities in the Armenian diaspora. It has its own script, the Armenian alphabet.
Additive synthesis: Additive synthesis is a technique of audio synthesis which creates musical timbre. The timbre of an instrument is composed of multiple harmonics (sine waves), at different frequencies and amplitudes, that change over time. Additive synthesis allows the emulation of sounds by giving control over the frequency and amplitude of each harmonic. Often, each harmonic generator has its own customizable volume envelope, creating a realistic, dynamic sound that changes over time.
Ad hominem: An ad hominem argument, also known as argumentum ad hominem, is an argument which links the validity of a premise to a characteristic or belief of the person advocating the premise. The ad hominem argument is not a fallacy despite there being fallacious instances of the argument. Fallacious instances of the ad hominem argument are presented below.
Apicomplexa: The Apicomplexa are a large group of protists, most of which possess a unique organelle called apicoplast and an apical complex structure involved in penetrating a host's cell. They are unicellular, spore-forming, and exclusively parasites of animals. Motile structures such as flagella or pseudopods are absent except in certain gamete stages.
Argentine cuisine: The cuisine of Argentina is distinctive in South America because of its strong resemblance to Spanish, Italian, French and other European cuisines rather than the other Latin American cuisines. Another determining factor in Argentine cuisine is that the country is one of the world's major food producers. It is a major producer of meat, wheat, corn, milk, beans, and since the 1970s, soybeans.
Analysis of algorithms: To analyze an algorithm is to determine the amount of resources (such as time and storage) necessary to execute it. Most algorithms are designed to work with inputs of arbitrary length. Usually the efficiency or running time of an algorithm is stated as a function relating the input length to the number of steps or storage locations (space complexity).
Acadia University: Acadia University is a non-denominational, predominantly undergraduate university located in Wolfville, Nova Scotia, Canada with some graduate programs at the master's level and one at the doctoral level.
Atari: Atari is a corporate and brand name owned by several entities since its inception in 1972. It is currently owned by Atari Interactive, a wholly owned subsidiary of the French publisher Atari SA (ASA). The original Atari Inc. was founded in 1972 by Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney. It was a pioneer in arcade games, home video game consoles, and home computers. The company's products, such as Pong and the Atari 2600, helped define the computer entertainment industry from the 1970s to the mid 1980s.
 lle of Sussex: le is recorded in early sources as the first king of the South Saxons, reigning in what is now called Sussex, England, from 477 to perhaps as late as 514. The information about him is so limited that it cannot be said with certainty that le existed. le and three of his sons are reported to have arrived from the continent near what is now Selsey Bill- the exact location is under the sea, and is probably the shoals currently known as the Owers- and fought against the Britons.
Antipope John XXIII: Baldassarre Cossa (c. 1370 - 22 December 1419), was Antipope John XXIII during the Western Schism (1410-1415).
Antonio Salieri: Antonio Salieri (18 August 1750 - 7 May 1825) was an Italian composer, conductor and teacher born in the Republic of Venice, but who spent his adult life and career as a faithful subject of the Hapsburg Monarchy. Salieri was a pivotal figure in the development of late 18th century opera. As a student of Florian Leopold Gassmann, and a protege of Gluck, Salieri was a cosmopolitan composer who wrote operas in three languages.
Activism: Activism, in a general sense, can be described as intentional action to bring about social, political, economic, or environmental change. This action is in support of, or opposition to, one side of an often controversial argument.
Steel-string acoustic guitar: A steel-string acoustic guitar is a modern form of guitar descended from the classical guitar, but strung with steel strings for a brighter, louder sound. They are often referred to simply as acoustic guitars, although strictly speaking the nylon-strung classical guitar is acoustic as well. The most common type can be called a flat-top guitar to distinguish it from the more specialized archtop guitar and other variations.
Annapolis Valley: The Annapolis Valley is a valley and region in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia. It is located in the western part of the Nova Scotia peninsula, formed by a trough between two parallel mountain ranges along the shore of the Bay of Fundy.
Abiotic stress: Abiotic stress is defined as the negative impact of non-living factors on the living organisms in a specific environment. The non-living variable must influence the environment beyond its normal range of variation to adversely affect the population performance or individual physiology of the organism in a significant way.
Cobble Hill Tunnel: The Cobble Hill Tunnel (popularly the Atlantic Avenue Tunnel) of the Long Island Rail Road is an abandoned railroad tunnel beneath Atlantic Avenue in downtown Brooklyn, New York City. When open, it ran for about 2,517 feet (767 m) between Columbia Street and Boerum Place. It is the oldest railway tunnel beneath a city street in North America.
Apostolic succession: Apostolic succession is the doctrine in some Christian theology asserting that the chosen successors of the Twelve Apostles, from the first century to the present day, have the same authority, power, and responsibility as was conferred upon the apostles by Jesus. Orthodox, Roman Catholic, and Anglican churches are the predominant proponents of this doctrine. To them, present-day bishops, as the successors of previous bishops, going back to the apostles, have power by this unbroken chain.
Anglo-Saxon monarchs: Anglo-Saxon monarchs were the rulers of the various kingdoms which arose in England following the withdrawal of the Romans in the fifth century. The most prominent kingdoms were Kent, Sussex, Wessex, Mercia and Bernicia, each recognising their own monarch. After a considerable period of time and fluctuations in power balance, Alfred the Great of Wessex was recognised by the other kingdoms as the premier English king.
Analgesic: An analgesic (also known as a painkiller) is any member of the group of drugs used to relieve pain (achieve). The word analgesic derives from Greek an- ("without") and algos ("pain"). Analgesic drugs act in various ways on the peripheral and central nervous systems; they include paracetamol (para-acetylaminophenol, also known in the US as acetaminophen), the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as the salicylates, and opioid drugs such as morphine and tramadol.
Accusative case: The accusative case of a noun is the grammatical case used to mark the direct object of a transitive verb. The same case is used in many languages for the objects of (some or all) prepositions. It is a noun that is having something done to it, usually joined (such as in Latin) with the nominative case. The English name "accusative" comes from the Latin accusativus, which, in turn, is a translation of the Greek .
Ascorbic acid: Ascorbic acid is a sugar acid with antioxidant properties. Its appearance is white to light-yellow crystals or powder, and it is water-soluble. One form of ascorbic acid is commonly known as vitamin C. The name is derived from a- (meaning "no") and scorbutus, the disease caused by a deficiency of vitamin C.
Arthur Stanley Eddington: Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington, OM, FRS (28 December 1882 - 22 November 1944) was a British astrophysicist of the early 20th century. The Eddington limit, the natural limit to the luminosity of stars, or the radiation generated by accretion onto a compact object, is named in his honour. He is famous for his work regarding the Theory of Relativity. Eddington wrote a number of articles which announced and explained Einstein's theory of general relativity to the English-speaking world.
AFC Ajax: Amsterdamsche Football Club Ajax, also referred to as AFC Ajax, Ajax Amsterdam or simply Ajax, is a professional football club from Amsterdam, Netherlands. The club is historically one of the three clubs that dominate the Dutch national football league, the others being PSV and Feyenoord. Ajax is historically one of the most successful clubs of the world; according to the IFFHS, Ajax were the seventh most successful European club of the 20th century.
Alexis Korner: Alexis Korner (19 April 1928 - 1 January 1984), born Alexis Andrew Nicholas Koerner, was a pioneering blues musician and broadcaster who has sometimes been referred to as "the Founding Father of British Blues". A major influence on the sound of the British music scene in the 1960s, Korner was instrumental in bringing together various English blues musicians.
Assault gun: An assault gun is a gun or howitzer mounted on a motor vehicle or armored chassis, designed for use in the direct fire role in support of infantry when attacking other infantry or fortified positions. Historically the custom-built fully armored assault guns usually mounted the gun or howitzer in a fully enclosed casemate on a tank chassis.
Tank destroyer: A self-propelled anti-tank gun, or tank destroyer, is a type of armored fighting vehicle designed specifically to engage enemy armored vehicles. Many have been produced as a tank-like vehicle, but with light armor and capable of higher speed, with a gun or missile launcher. Many lack turrets. Aiming in the horizontal plane is achieved partially by maneuvering the entire vehicle in the turretless models, with final fine adjustments possible using a limited-traverse gun mount.
Armored car military: The military's armored (or armoured) car is a wheeled armored vehicle, lighter than other armored fighting vehicles, primarily being armored and/or armed for self-defense of the occupants. Other multi-axled wheeled military vehicles can be quite large, and actually be superior to some smaller tracked vehicles in terms of armor and armament.
AZ football club: AZ, an acronym for Alkmaar Zaanstreek, is a football club from the city of Alkmaar, Netherlands. They are the current Dutch Eredivisie champions.
Self-propelled anti-aircraft weapon: A self-propelled anti-aircraft weapon (SPAA, also self-propelled air defense, SPAD, or self-propelled anti-aircraft gun, SPAAG) is an anti-aircraft gun or surface-to-air missile launcher mounted on a mobile vehicle chassis. The Russian equivalent of SPAAG is ZSU, for zenitnaya samokhodnaya ustanovka, ("anti-aircraft self-propelled mount"). Specific weapon systems include machine guns, autocannon, larger guns, or missiles, and some mount both guns and longer-ranged missiles.
Antoni Gaud: Antoni Plid Guillem Gaud i Cornet (25 June 1852-10 June 1926) - in English, normally referred to by the Spanish translation of his name, Antonio Gaud - was a Spanish Catalan architect who belonged to the Modernist style movement and was famous for his unique and highly individualistic designs.
Adrenal gland: In mammals, the adrenal glands (also known as suprarenal glands) are the triangular-shaped endocrine glands that sit on top of the kidneys. They are chiefly responsible for releasing hormones in conjunction with stress through the synthesis of corticosteroids and catecholamines, including cortisol and adrenaline (epinephrine), respectively.
American Media publisher: American Media, Inc. , is a publisher of a number of major United States-based magazines and supermarket tabloids.
Aramaic language: Aramaic is a Semitic language belonging to the Afroasiatic language family. Within this family, Aramaic belongs to the Semitic subfamily, and more specifically, is a part of the Northwest Semitic group of languages, which also includes Canaanite languages such as Hebrew and Phoenician. Aramaic script was widely adopted for other languages and is ancestral to both the Arabic and Hebrew alphabets.
Actinoid: The actinoid or actinide (traditional nomenclature, still in wide use) series encompasses the 14 chemical elements with atomic numbers from 90 to 103, thorium to lawrencium. The actinoid series derives its name from the group 3 element actinium which can be included in the series for the purpose of comparisons. Only thorium and uranium occur in usable quantities in nature. The other actinoids are man-made elements. The actinoids are usually considered to be f-block elements.
Arthur Miller: Arthur Asher Miller (October 17, 1915 - February 10, 2005) was an American playwright and essayist. He was a prominent figure in American theatre, writing dramas that include awards-winning plays such as All My Sons, Death of a Salesman, and The Crucible.
Titus Biblical: Saint Titus was a companion of Saint Paul, mentioned in several of the Pauline epistles. Titus was with Paul and Barnabas at Antioch and accompanied them to the Council of Jerusalem, although his name occurs nowhere in the Acts of the Apostles. He appears to have been a Gentile - for Paul sternly refused to have him circumcised, because Paul believed Christ's gospel freed believers from the requirements of the Mosaic Law - and to have been chiefly engaged in ministering to Gentiles.
Anton Diabelli: Anton Diabelli (5 September 1781 - 8 April 1858) was an Austrian music publisher, editor and composer. Best known in his time as a publisher, he is most familiar today as the composer of the waltz on which Ludwig van Beethoven wrote his set of thirty-three Diabelli Variations. Diabelli was born in Mattsee near Salzburg. He was trained to enter the priesthood, but also took music lessons with Michael Haydn.
August 10: The term 'the 10th of August' is widely used by historians as a shorthand for the Storming of the Tuileries Palace on the 10th of August, 1792, the effective end of the French monarchy until it is restored in 1814.
Anita Hill: Anita Faye Hill (born July 30, 1956) is a professor of social policy, law, and women's studies at Brandeis University at the Heller School for Social Policy and Management and a former colleague of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas. She is best known for testifying under oath at Thomas' 1991 Senate confirmation hearings that her supervisor Thomas had made provocative and harassing sexual statements.
Audio file format: An audio file format is a file format for storing audio data on a computer system. It can be a raw bitstream, but it is usually a container format or an audio data format with defined storage layer. The general approach towards storing digital audio is to sample the audio voltage which, on playback, would correspond to a certain level of signal in an individual channel with a certain resolutionthe number of bits per samplein regular intervals.
Audio signal processing: Audio signal processing, sometimes referred to as audio processing, is the intentional alteration of auditory signals, or sound. As audio signals may be electronically represented in either digital or analog format, signal processing may occur in either domain. Analog processors operate directly on the electrical signal, while digital processors operate mathematically on the binary representation of that signal.
Amdahl's law: Amdahl's law, also known as Amdahl's argument, is named after computer architect Gene Amdahl, and is used to find the maximum expected improvement to an overall system when only part of the system is improved. It is often used in parallel computing to predict the theoretical maximum speedup using multiple processors. The speedup of a program using multiple processors in parallel computing is limited by the time needed for the sequential fraction of the program.
Ayahuasca: This entry focuses on the Ayahuasca brew; for information on the vine of the same name, see Banisteriopsis caapi Ayahuasca is any of various psychoactive infusions or decoctions prepared from the Banisteriopsis spp. vine, usually mixed with the leaves of dimethyltryptamine-containing species of shrubs from the Psychotria genus.
Area 51: Area 51 is a nickname for a military base that is located in the southern portion of Nevada in the western United States, 83 miles (133 km) north-northwest of downtown Las Vegas. Situated at its center, on the southern shore of Groom Lake, is a large secretive military airfield. The base's primary purpose is to support development and testing of experimental aircraft and weapons systems. The base lies within the United States Air Force's vast Nevada Test and Training Range.
Alfonso Leng: Alfonso Leng (February 11, 1894 - November 11, 1974) was a post-romantic composer of classical music and dentist. He was born in Santiago, Chile. He wrote the first important symphonic work in Chilean tradition, "La Muerte de Alcino", a symphonic poem inspired by the novel from Pedro Prado.
AD disambiguation: AD commonly refers to Anno Domini, Latin for "In the Year of (Our) Lord", applied to years following 1 BC in the Julian and Gregorian calendars. AD or Ad may also refer to:
Abbe number: In physics and optics, the Abbe number, also known as the V-number or constringence of a transparent material, is a measure of the material's dispersion (variation of refractive index with wavelength) in relation to the refractive index. It is named after Ernst Abbe (1840-1905), the German physicist who defined it.
Ablative case: In linguistics, ablative case is a name given to cases in various languages whose common characteristic is that they mark motion away from something, though the details in each language may differ. The name "ablative" is derived from the Latin ablatus, the (irregular) perfect passive participle of auferre "to carry away".
ACN: ACN is a three-letter acronym that may refer to: Accenture Achnasheen railway station, a United Kingdom railway station Acetonitrile ACN Inc.
Adamic language: The Adamic language is, according to Abrahamic traditions, the language spoken by Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. Adamic is typically identified with either the language used by God to address Adam, or the language invented by Adam.
Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny: Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny (Aufstieg und Fall der Stadt Mahagonny) is a political-satirical opera composed by Kurt Weill to a German libretto by Bertolt Brecht. It was first performed in Leipzig on 9 March 1930.
Avery Hopwood: Avery Hopwood (May 28, 1882 - July 1, 1928), who was born in Cleveland, Ohio and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Michigan (1905), was one of the most successful playwrights of the Jazz Age, having four plays running simultaneously on Broadway in 1920. Hopwood started out as a journalist for a Cleveland newspaper as its New York correspondent, but within a year had a play, Clothes (1906), produced on Broadway.
Alkaloid: Alkaloids are naturally occurring chemical compounds containing basic nitrogen atoms. The name derives from the word alkaline and is used to describe any nitrogen-containing base and organic compounds with one or more of the following features: a heterocyclic compound containing nitrogen, with an alkaline pH and a marked physiological action on animal physiology. However, There are exceptions to each of these criteria.
Adventism: The term Adventist generally refers to someone who believes in the Second Advent of Jesus (popularly known as the Second coming) in the tradition of the Millerites. The largest church within the movement today is the Seventh-day Adventist Church. The Adventist family of churches are regarded today as conservative Protestants.
Antipope Felix II: Antipope Felix II was installed as Pope in 355 after the Emperor Constantius II banished the reigning Pope, Liberius, for refusing to subscribe the sentence of condemnation against Saint Athanasius. In May 357 the Roman laity, which had remained faithful to Liberius, demanded that Constantius, who was on a visit to Rome, should recall Liberius.
Archbishop of Canterbury: The Archbishop of Canterbury is the chief bishop and principal leader of the Church of England, the symbolic head of the worldwide Anglican Communion and the diocesan bishop of the Diocese of Canterbury, the see that churches must be in communion with in order to be a part of the Anglican Communion. The current archbishop is the Most Reverend Rowan Williams.
Albion Michigan: Albion is a city in Calhoun County in the south central region of the Lower Peninsula of the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 9,144 at the 2000 census and is part of the Battle Creek Metropolitan Statistical Area. From the time that the earliest English-speaking settlers arrived, the area has also been known as The Forks, because it is situated at the confluence of the north and south branches of the Kalamazoo River.
Anointing of the Sick: Anointing of the Sick is distinguished from other forms of religious anointing or "unction" (an older term with the same meaning) in that it is intended, as its name indicates, for the benefit of a sick person. Other religious anointings occur in relation to other sacraments, in particular baptism, confirmation and ordination, and also in the coronation of a monarch.
Index of architecture articles: This page aims to list all topics related to architecture.
American Football League: The American Football League (AFL) was a major Professional football league that operated from 1960 until 1969, when it merged with the established National Football League (NFL). The upstart AFL operated in direct competition with the more established NFL throughout its existence. Though downplayed by the NFL as inferior, the AFL signed half of the NFL's first-round draft choices in 1960, including All-American Billy Cannon, perennial All-Star Johnny Robinson, and Hall of Famer Ron Mix.
Abstract data type: In computing, an abstract data type or abstract data structure is a mathematical model for a certain class of data structures that have similar behavior; or for certain data types of one or more programming languages that have similar semantics. An abstract data type is defined indirectly, only by the operations that may be performed on it and by mathematical constraints on the effects of those operations.
Antibody: Antibodies (also known as immunoglobulins, abbreviated Ig) are gamma globulin proteins that are found in blood or other bodily fluids of vertebrates, and are used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects, such as bacteria and viruses. They are typically made of basic structural unitseach with two large heavy chains and two small light chainsto form, for example, monomers with one unit, dimers with two units or pentamers with five units.
Alessandro Scarlatti: Alessandro Scarlatti (2 May 1660 - 24 October 1725) was an Italian Baroque composer especially famous for his operas and chamber cantatas. He is considered the founder of the Neapolitan school of opera. He was the father of two other composers, Domenico Scarlatti and Pietro Filippo Scarlatti.
A.S. Roma: Associazione Sportiva Roma, commonly referred to as simply Roma, is an Italian professional football club from Rome. Founded by a merger in 1927, Roma have participated in the top-tier of Italian football for all of their existence bar one season in the early 50s. For their 58th season in a row (77th overall), Roma are competing in Serie A for 2009-10.
Albert Pike: Albert Pike (December 29, 1809-April 2, 1891) was an attorney, soldier, writer, and Freemason. Pike is the only Confederate military officer or figure to be honored with an outdoor statue in Washington, D.C..
Aston Martin: Aston Martin Lagonda Limited is a British manufacturer of luxury sports cars, based in Gaydon, Warwickshire. The company name is derived from the name of one of the company's founders, Lionel Martin, and from the Aston Hill speed hillclimb near Aston Clinton in Buckinghamshire From 1994 until 2007 Aston Martin was part of the Ford Motor Company, becoming part of the company's Premier Automotive Group in 2000.
ALF Tales: ALF Tales is an animated American series that ran on the NBC television network on Saturdays from August 1988 to December 1989. The show was a spinoff from the series '. The show had characters from that series play various characters from fairy tales. The fairy tale was usually altered for comedic effect in a manner relational to Fractured Fairy Tales. Each story also typically spoofed a film genre, such as the "Cinderella" episode done as an Elvis movie.
Accelerated Graphics Port: The Accelerated Graphics Port (often shortened to AGP) is a high-speed point-to-point channel for attaching a video card to a computer's motherboard, primarily to assist in the acceleration of 3D computer graphics. Since 2004, AGP has been progressively phased out in favor of PCI Express. As of mid-2009, PCIe cards dominate the market, but new AGP cards and motherboards are still available for purchase, though OEM driver support is minimal.
Abdul Rashid Dostum: Abdul Rashid Dostum ('Abd al-Raszhid Dostum or Dostam) (born 1954) is a former pro-Soviet fighter during the Soviet war in Afghanistan and is considered by many to be the leader of Afghanistan's Uzbek community. He joined the Afghan military in 1978, fighting with the Soviets and against the mujahideen throughout the 1980s before switching sides and joining the mujahideen. Dostum would again switch sides and has become infamous for his switching of allegiances.
Alois Alzheimer: Aloysius "Alois" Alzheimer, (pron. , 14 June 1864 - 19 December 1915) was a German psychiatrist and neuropathologist and a colleague of Emil Kraepelin. Alzheimer is credited with identifying the first published case of "presenile dementia", which Kraepelin would later identify as Alzheimer's disease.
Aalen: Aalen is a town in the German state of Baden-Wrttemberg. It is the seat of the Ostalbkreis district, and its largest town.
Andreas Aagesen: Andreas Aagesen (5 August 1826 - 26 October 1879) was a Danish jurist. He was educated for the law at Christiania and Copenhagen, and interrupted his studies in 1848 to take part in the First Schleswig War, in which he served as the leader of a reserve battalion. In 1855 he became professor of jurisprudence at the University of Copenhagen. In 1870 he was appointed a member of the commission for drawing up a maritime and commercial code, and the navigation law of 1882 is mainly his work.
American Airlines: American Airlines, Inc. (AA) is a major airline of the United States. It is the world's second largest airline in passenger miles transported, passenger fleet size and in operating revenues; third largest, in aircraft operated. A subsidiary of the AMR Corporation, the airline is headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, adjacent to the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.
Andhra Pradesh: Andhra Pradesh, abbreviated A.P. , is a state situated on the south-eastern coast of India. It is India's fourth largest state by area and fifth largest by population. Its capital and largest city is Hyderabad. The State has the second longest coastline (972 km) among all the States in India.
Aedile: Aedile was an office of the Roman Republic. Based in Rome, the aediles were responsible for maintenance of public buildings and regulation of public festivals. They also had powers to enforce public order. There were two pair of aediles. Two aediles were from the ranks of plebeians and the other were called curule aediles (aediles curules). The office of the curule aedile was open to plebeians and patricians, and they were considered curule magistrates.
Antidepressant: An antidepressant is a psychiatric medication used to alleviate mood disorders, such as major depression and dysthymia. Drugs including the monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), tetracyclic antidepressants (TeCAs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) are most commonly associated with the term.
Analog television: Analog (or analogue) television encodes television picture and sound information and transmits it as an analog signal: one in which the message conveyed by the broadcast signal is a function of deliberate variations in the amplitude and/or frequency of the signal. All systems preceding digital television, such as NTSC, PAL or SECAM are analog television systems.
Anode: An anode is an electrode through which electric current flows into a polarized electrical device. Mnemonic: ACID (Anode Current Into Device). A widespread misconception is that anode polarity is always positive (+). This is often incorrectly inferred from the correct fact that in all electrochemical devices negatively charged anions move towards the anode (hence their name) and/or positively charged cations move away from it.
Akio Morita: Akio Morita ( Morita Akio, January 26, 1921, Tokoname, Aichi - October 3, 1999, Tokyo) was a Japanese businessman and co-founder of Sony Corporation along with Masaru Ibuka.
Adhesive: An adhesive, or glue, is a mixture in a liquid or semi-liquid state that adheres or bonds items together. Adhesives may come from either natural or synthetic sources. Some modern adhesives are extremely strong, and are becoming increasingly important in modern construction and industry. The types of materials that can be bonded using adhesives are virtually limitless, but they are especially useful for bonding thin materials. Adhesives usually require a controlled temperature to cure or set.
Auger effect: The Auger effect is a phenomenon in physics in which the transition of an electron in an atom filling in an inner-shell vacancy causes the emission of another electron. When an electron is removed from a core level of an atom, leaving a vacancy, an electron from a higher energy level may fall into the vacancy, resulting in a release of energy.
Ardal O'Hanlon: Ardal O'Hanlon (born 8 October 1965) is an Irish comedian and actor, best known for his roles in television sitcoms as Father Dougal McGuire in Father Ted and George Sunday in My Hero.
Anthony Hopkins: Sir Philip Anthony Hopkins, CBE (born 31 December 1937) is a Welsh film, stage and television actor. Considered to be one of film's greatest living actors, he is best known for his portrayal of cannibalistic serial killer Hannibal Lecter in The Silence of the Lambs, its sequel, Hannibal, and its prequel, Red Dragon. Other prominent film credits include Magic, The Elephant Man, 84 Charing Cross Road, Dracula, Legends of the Fall, The Remains of the Day, Amistad, Nixon and Fracture.
Advanced Micro Devices: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) is an American multinational semiconductor company based in Sunnyvale, California, that develops computer processors and related technologies for commercial and consumer markets.
Albrecht D rer: Albrecht Drer (21 May 1471 - 6 April 1528) was a German painter, printmaker and theorist from Nuremberg. His prints established his reputation across Europe when he was still in his twenties, and he has been conventionally regarded as the greatest artist of the Northern Renaissance ever since. His well-known works include the Apocalypse woodcuts, ' (1513), Saint Jerome in his Study (1514) and Melencolia I (1514), which has been the subject of extensive analysis and interpretation.
Application programming interface: An application programming interface (API) is an interface implemented by a software program to enable interaction with other software, similar to the way a user interface facilitates interaction between humans and computers. APIs are implemented by applications, libraries and operating systems to determine the vocabulary and calling conventions the programmer should employ to use their services.
Aon Corporation: Aon Corporation is a provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting, and specialty insurance underwriting. It is based in the Aon Center in the Chicago Loop area of Chicago, Illinois, United States. In July 2007, Aon Corp. was ranked as the world's second largest insurance broker.
Australian rules football: Australian football, also commonly referred to as football, or Aussie rules, colloquially as footy, and historically as Australian football, is a variant of football played between two teams of 18 players, plus four interchange players, outdoors on large oval-shaped grass fields, with a ball in the shape of a prolate spheroid. The primary aim of the game is to score goals by kicking the ball between the middle two posts of the opposing goal.
Alban Berg: Alban Maria Johanne Berg (February 9, 1885 - December 24, 1935) was an Austrian composer. He was a member of the Second Viennese School with Arnold Schoenberg and Anton Webern, and produced compositions that combined Mahlerian Romanticism with a personal adaptation of Schoenberg's twelve-tone technique.
Arrangement: The American Federation of Musicians defines arranging as "the art of preparing and adapting an already written composition for presentation in other than its original form. An arrangement may include reharmonization, paraphrasing, and/or development of a composition, so that it fully represents the melodic, harmonic, and rhythmic structure" (Corozine 2002, p.3).
Analytical chemistry: Analytical chemistry is the study of the chemical composition of natural and artificial materials. Properties studied in analytical chemistry include geometric features such as molecular morphologies and distributions of species, as well as features such as composition and species identity. Unlike the sub disciplines inorganic chemistry and organic chemistry, analytical chemistry is not restricted to any particular type of chemical compound or reaction.
A cappella: A cappella (Italian for From the chapel/choir) music is group vocal music or singing without instrumental accompaniment, or a piece intended to be performed in this way. A cappella was originally intended to differentiate between Renaissance polyphony and Baroque concertato style. In the 19th century a renewed interest in Renaissance polyphony coupled with an ignorance of the fact that vocal parts were often doubled by instrumentalists led to the term coming to mean unaccompanied vocal music.
Athanasian Creed: The Athanasian Creed (Quicumque vult) is a Christian statement of belief, focusing on Trinitarian doctrine and Christology. The Latin name of the creed, Quicumque vult, is taken from the opening words "Whosoever wishes. " The Athanasian Creed has been used by Christian churches since the sixth century AD.
Ann Widdecombe: Ann Noreen Widdecombe (born 4 October 1947) is a British Conservative Party politician and, since 2000, television presenter and novelist. She is the Member of Parliament for Maidstone and The Weald and a Privy Counsellor. She is a member of the Conservative Christian Fellowship and a supporter of traditional family values.
Alicante: Alacant or Alicante is a city in Spain, the capital of the province of Alicante and of the comarca of the Alacant, in the southern part of the Valencian Community. It is also a historic Mediterranean port. The population of the city of Alicante proper was 334,757, estimated as of 2009, ranking as the second-largest Valencian city. Including nearby municipalities, Alicante conurbation was populated by 458,843 residents.
Alexandrine: An alexandrine is a line of poetic meter comprising 12 syllables. Alexandrines are common in the German literature of the Baroque period and in French poetry of the early modern and modern periods. Drama in English often used alexandrines before Marlowe and Shakespeare, by whom it was supplanted by iambic pentameter (5-foot verse). In non-Anglo-Saxon or French contexts, the term dodecasyllable is often used.
Aurangzeb: Muhi Uddin Muhammad Aurangzeb Bahadur Alamgir I, more commonly known as Aurangzeb (Persian: , also known by his chosen imperial title Alamgir I, was the 6th Mughal Emperor whose reign lasted from 1658 until his death in 1707. Aurangzeb's reign as the Mughal monarch was marked by many wars of expansion. Aurangzeb, having ruled most of the Indian subcontinent for nearly half a century, was the second longest reigning Mughal emperor after Akbar.
Analog computer: An analog computer (spelled analogue in British English) is a form of computer that uses the continuously-changeable aspects of physical phenomena such as electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic quantities to model the problem being solved. In contrast, digital computers represent varying quantities incrementally, as their numerical values change. Mechanical analog computers were very important in gun fire control in World War II and the Korean War; they were made in significant numbers.
Audio: Audio may refer to: Sound that is capable of being heard Sound recording and reproduction Natural acoustic audio Audio frequencies Audio content Audio book, a sound recording of a book Audio content file format Windows Media Audio, Microsoft's proprietary digital audio format
Minute of arc: A minute of arc, or arcminute or minute of angle (MOA), is a unit of angular measurement, equal to one sixtieth (1/60) of one degree. Since one degree is defined as one three hundred sixtieth (1/360) of a circle, 1 minute of arc is 1/21,600 of the amount of arc in a closed circle. It is used in those fields which require a unit for the expression of small angles, such as astronomy or marksmanship.
Alberto Giacometti: Alberto Giacometti (10 October 1901 - 11 January 1966) was a Swiss sculptor, painter, draughtsman, and printmaker. Alberto Giacometti was born in the Italian-speaking part of Switzerland and came from an artistic background; his father, Giovanni, was a well-known Post-Impressionist painter. Alberto was the eldest of four children and was always especially close to the brother nearest to him in age, Diego. From the beginning, he was interested in art.
Anthem: The term anthem means either a specific form of Anglican church music (in music theory and religious contexts), or more generally, a song (or composition) of celebration, usually acting as a symbol for a distinct group of people, as in the term "national anthem" or "sports anthem".
Albrecht Altdorfer: Albrecht Altdorfer (c. 1480 near Regensburg - 12 February 1538 in Regensburg) was a German painter, printmaker and architect of the Renaissance era, the leader of the Danube School in southern Germany, and a near-contemporary of Albrecht Drer. He is best known as a significant pioneer of landscape in art.
Acceleration: In physics, and more specifically kinematics, acceleration is the change in velocity over time. Because velocity is a vector, it can change in two ways: a change in magnitude and/or a change in direction. In one dimension, i.e. a line, acceleration is the rate at which something speeds up or slows down. However, as a vector quantity, acceleration is also the rate at which direction changes. Acceleration has the dimensions L T.
Conservation-restoration: Conservation-restoration, also referred to as conservation, is a profession devoted to the preservation of cultural heritage for the future. Conservation activities include examination, documentation, treatment, and preventive care. All of this work is supported by research and education.
AW: AW, aW or aw may stand for:
Action Against Hunger: Action Against Hunger (known internationally as Action Contre la Faim, or ACF) is an international relief and development organization committed to saving the lives of malnourished children and families while seeking long-term, sustainable solutions to hunger. Recognized as a world leader in the fight against hunger and malnutrition, Action Against Hunger specializes in responding to emergency situations of war, conflict, and natural disaster.
Anton Chekhov: Anton Pavlovich Chekhov (29 January 1860 - 15 July 1904) was a Russian short-story writer, playwright and physician, considered to be one of the greatest short-story writers in the history of world literature. His career as a dramatist produced four classics and his best short stories are held in high esteem by writers and critics. Chekhov practised as a doctor throughout most of his literary career: "Medicine is my lawful wife", he once said, "and literature is my mistress.
House of Ascania: The House of Ascania was a dynasty of German rulers. It was also known as the House of Anhalt, after Anhalt, its longest possession. The Ascanians are named after Ascania (or Ascaria) Castle, which is located near and named after Aschersleben. The castle was seat of the County of Ascania, a title that was later subsumed into the titles of the princes of Anhalt. The earliest known member of the House is Esiko, Count of Ballenstedt.
Apoptosis: Apoptosis (p-t'ss poss, pp-t'ss) is the process of programmed cell death (PCD) that may occur in multicellular organisms.
Anal sex: Anal sex most often refers to the sex act involving insertion of the penis into the anus. The term anal sex can also sometimes include other sexual acts involving the anus, including Anal-oral sex, fingering, and object insertion. A 2009 study of American college undergraduates, the large majority heterosexual, found that one in four reported having had anal sex, while the figures for the general population range between thirty and forty percent.
Aarau: Aarau is the capital of the northern Swiss canton of Aargau. The city is also the capital of the district of Aarau. It is German-speaking and predominantly Protestant. Aarau is situated on the Swiss plateau, in the valley of the Aar, on the river's right bank, and at the southern foot of the Jura mountains, and is west of Zurich. The municipality borders directly on the Canton of Solothurn to the west. It is the third-largest city in Aargau after Wettingen and Baden.
Anti-globalization movement: The anti-globalization movement is critical of the globalization of capitalism. The movement is also commonly referred to as the global justice movement, alter-globalization movement, anti-corporate globalization movement, or movement against neoliberal globalization. Corresponding terms in other languages are mouvement antimondialiste (French), globalisierungskritische Bewegung (German), Movimento no-global (Italian), or Movimento anti-globaliza (Portuguese).
Ababda: The Ababda or Ababde - the Gebadei of Pliny, and possibly the Troglodytes of other classical writers - are nomads living in the area between the Nile and the Red Sea, in the vicinity of Aswan in Egypt. They are a subgroup of the Beja people who are bilingual in Beja and Egyptian Arabic. They extend from the Nile at Aswan to the Red Sea, and reach northward to the Qena-Quseir road, thus occupying the southern border of Egypt east of the Nile. They call themselves "sons of the Jinns.
Aargau: Aargau is one of the more northerly cantons of Switzerland. It comprises the lower course of the river Aare, which is why the canton is called Aar-gau (meaning Aare district).
American Quarter Horse: The American Quarter Horse is an American breed of horse that excels at sprinting short distances. Its name came from its ability to outdistance other breeds of horses in races of a quarter mile or less; some individuals have been clocked at speeds up to 55 mph (88.5 km/h). The American Quarter Horse is the most popular breed in the United States today, and the American Quarter Horse Association is the largest breed registry in the world, with over 4 million American Quarter Horses registered.
Abac: Abac (ah-b-KAH, from Spanish "abac" for Musa textilis) is a species of banana native to the Philippines, grown widely as well in Borneo and Sumatra. It is sometimes referred to as "BacBac". The plant is of great economic importance, being harvested for its fibre, once generally called Manila hemp, extracted from the leaf sheath around the trunk. On average, the plant grows about 20 feet (6 metres) tall.
Abaddon: Abaddon in the Revelation of St. John, is the king of tormenting locusts and the angel of the bottomless pit. The exact nature of Abaddon is debated, but the Hebrew word is related to the triliteral root (ABD), which in verb form means "to perish."
Abakan: Abakan is the capital city of the Republic of Khakassia in Russia, in South Siberia. It is located in the central part of Minusinsk Depression, at the confluence of the Yenisei and Abakan Rivers, at approximately the same latitude as Hamburg and Minsk. Population: 165,197; 159,000(1994 est.).
Abae: Abae, is an ancient town in the northeastern corner of Phocis, in Greece. It was famous in antiquity for its oracle of Apollo Abaeus, one of those consulted by Croesus, king of Lydia, and Mardonius, among others. It was rich in treasures, but was destroyed by the Persians in the invasion of Xerxes in 480 BCE, and a second time by the Boeotians and remained in a ruined state. It was rebuilt by Hadrian. The oracle was, however, still consulted, e.g. by the Thebans before Leuctra in 371 BCE.
Abadeh: Abadeh is a city in Fars province, Iran, situated at an elevation of 6,200 feet (1,890 m) in a fertile plain on the high road between Isfahan and Shiraz, 140 miles (230 km) from the former and 170 miles (270 km) from the latter. The population is 59,241 (est. 2007), showing a growth of 45% from 1985 to 2005. The city is the capital of Abadehy County. It is the largest city in the Abadeh-Eghlid district, which is famed for its carved wood-work, made of the wood of pear and box trees.
ATM: ATM or atm is an abbreviation which may refer to:
Amazonite: Amazonite (sometimes called "Amazon stone") is a green variety of microcline feldspar. The name is taken from that of the Amazon River, from which certain green stones were formerly obtained, but it is doubtful whether green feldspar occurs in the Amazon area. Amazonite is a mineral of limited occurrence. Formerly it was obtained almost exclusively from the area of Miass in the Ilmen mountains, 50 miles southwest of Chelyabinsk, Russia, where it occurs in granitic rocks.
Ambrosius Bosschaert: Ambrosius Bosschaert the Elder was a still life painter of the Dutch Golden Age.
Anthroposophy: Anthroposophy, a spiritual philosophy founded by Rudolf Steiner, postulates the existence of an objective, intellectually comprehensible spiritual world accessible to direct experience through inner development- more specifically through cultivating conscientiously a form of thinking independent of sensory experience. In its investigations of the spiritual world, anthroposophy aims to attain the precision and clarity of natural science's investigations of the physical world.
Anus: The anus is an opening at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth.
Asynchronous Transfer Mode: Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) is a standardized digital data transmission technology. ATM is implemented as a network protocol and was first developed in the mid 1980s. The goal was to design a single networking strategy that could transport real-time video conference and audio as well as image files, text and email.
Aurochs: The aurochs or urus (Bos primigenius), the ancestor of domestic cattle, was a type of huge wild cattle which inhabited Europe, Asia and North Africa, but is now extinct; it survived in Europe until 1627. The aurochs was far larger than most modern domestic cattle with a shoulder height of 2 metres (6.6 ft) and weighing 1,000 kilograms (2,200 lb). Domestication occurred in several parts of the world at roughly the same time, about 8,000 years ago.
Acantharea: The Acantharea are a group of radiolarian protozoa, distinguished mainly by their skeletons.
Arc de Triomphe: The Arc de Triomphe is a monument in Paris that stands in the centre of the Place Charles de Gaulle, also known as the Place de l'oile. Officially, it is the Arc de Triomphe de l'oile, as a smaller Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel exists nearby. It is located at the western end of the Champs-yss. The triumphal arch honours those who fought for France, particularly during the Napoleonic Wars. On the inside and the top of the arc there are all of the names of generals and wars fought.
African National Congress: The African National Congress (ANC) has been South Africa's governing party, supported by its tripartite alliance with the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU) and the South African Communist Party (SACP), since the establishment of non-racial democracy in April 1994. It defines itself as a "disciplined force of the left".
Asynchronous communication: In telecommunications, Asynchronous communication is transmission of data without the use of an external clock signal. Any timing required to recover data from the communication symbols is encoded within the symbols. The most significant aspect of asynchronous communications is variable bit rate, or that the transmitter and receiver clock generators do not have to be exactly synchronized.
Amphetamine: Amphetamine (amfetamine) is a psychostimulant drug that is known to produce increased wakefulness and focus in association with decreased fatigue and appetite. Amphetamine is related to drugs such as methamphetamine, dextroamphetamine, and levoamphetamine, which are a group of potent drugs that act by increasing levels of dopamine and norepinephrine in the brain, inducing euphoria. The group includes prescription CNS drugs commonly used to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Arnulf of Carinthia: Arnulf of Carinthia was the Carolingian King of East Francia from 887 and Holy Roman Emperor from 896 until his death.
Asian Development Bank: The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is a regional development bank established in 1966 to promote economic and social development in Asian and Pacific countries through loans and technical assistance. It is a multilateral development financial institution owned by 67 members (as of 2 February 2007), 48 from the region and 19 from other parts of the globe. ADB's vision is a region free of poverty.
Artillery: Artillery is a military combat arm that employs weapons capable of discharging large projectiles in combat. They are generally capable of adding considerable fire power to the military capability of an armed force. Artillery is also a system of scientific research and its application towards design, capability and combat use of the above matiel.
Adelaide of Italy: Saint Adelaide of Italy, also called Adelaide of Burgundy (931/932 - 16 December 999) was Holy Roman Empress and perhaps the most prominent European woman of the 10th century.
Alexanderplatz: File:Stadtviertel in Berlin-Mitte.
Addition of natural numbers: Addition of natural numbers is the most basic arithmetic binary operation. The operation addition takes two natural numbers, the augend and addend, and produces a single number, the sum. The set of natural numbers will be denoted by N, and "0" will be used to denote the natural number which is not the successor of any other natural number. Repeated addition of natural numbers is generalized as multiplication of natural numbers
Airbus A300: The Airbus A300 is a short- to medium-range widebody aircraft. Launched in 1972 as the world's first twin-engined widebody, it was the first product of the Airbus consortium of European aerospace companies, wholly owned today by EADS. The A300 ceased production in July 2007, along with the smaller A310. Freighter sales for which the A300 competed are to be fulfilled by a new A330-200F derivative.
Agostino Carracci: Agostino Carracci (or Caracci) (August 16, 1557 - March 22, 1602) was an Italian painter and printmaker. He was the brother of the more famous Annibale and cousin of Lodovico Carracci. He posited the ideal in nature, and was the founder of the competing school to the more gritty (for lack of a better term) view of nature as expressed by Caravaggio.
Aswan: Aswan or Aswanl, formerly spelled Assuan, is a city in the south of Egypt, the capital of the Aswan Governorate. It stands on the east bank of the Nile at the first cataract and is a busy market and tourist center. The modern city has expanded and includes the formerly separate community on the island of Elephantine. Aswan is one of the driest inhabited places in the world; as of early 2001, the last rain there was six years earlier.
Adenylate cyclase: Adenylate cyclase (EC 4.6.1.1, also known as adenylyl cyclase, adenyl cyclase or AC) is a lyase enzyme. It is a part of the cAMP-dependent pathway
Alexandra: Alexandra is the feminine form of the given name Alexander, which is a romanization of the Greek name (Alexandros). Etymologically, the name is a compound of the Greek verb (alexein) "to defend" and the noun (andros), genitive of (anr) "man". Thus it may be roughly translated as "protector of man". The earliest attested record of the name is the Mycenaean Alexandra, written in Linear B.
Articolo 31: Articolo 31 is a popular band in Milan, Italy, melding hip hop, funk, pop and traditional Italian musical forms. They are one of the most popular Italian rock/hip hop groups.
Ansgar: Saint Ansgar, Anskar or Oscar, (September 8, 801 - February 3, 865*, in Bremen) was an Archbishop of Hamburg-Bremen. The see of Hamburg was designated a "Mission to bring Christianity to the North", and Ansgar became known as the "Apostle of the North".
Alexander Kerensky: Alexander Fyodorovich Kerensky (4 May 1881 - 11 June 1970) was a Russian politician. He served as the second Prime Minister of the Russian Provisional Government until Lenin was elected by the All-Russian Congress of Soviets following the October Revolution.
Automated theorem proving: Automated theorem proving (ATP) or automated deduction, currently the most well-developed subfield of automated reasoning (AR), is the proving of mathematical theorems by a computer program.
Agent Orange: Agent Orange is the code name for a herbicide and defoliant- contaminated with TCDD- used by the U.S. military in its Herbicidal Warfare program during the Vietnam War. According to Vietnamese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 4.8 million Vietnamese people were exposed to Agent Orange, resulting in 400,000 deaths and disabilities, and 500,000 children born with birth defects.
Astronomical year numbering: Astronomical year numbering is based on AD/CE year numbering, but follows normal decimal integer numbering more strictly. Thus, it has a year 0, the years before that are designated with negative numbers and the years after that are designated with positive numbers. Astronomers use the Julian calendar for years before 1582, including this year 0, and the Gregorian calendar for years after 1582 as exemplified by Jacques Cassini (1740), Simon Newcomb (1898) and Fred Espenak (2007).
Adam of Bremen: Adam of Bremen was a German medieval chronicler. He lived and worked in the second half of the eleventh century. He is most famous for his chronicle Gesta Hammaburgensis Ecclesiae Pontificum (Deeds of Bishops of the Hamburg Church).
Ab urbe condita: Ab urbe condita is Latin for "from the founding of the City", traditionally set in 753 BC. AUC is a year-numbering system used by some ancient Roman historians to identify particular Roman years. Renaissance editors sometimes added AUC to Roman manuscripts they published, giving the false impression that the Romans usually numbered their years using the AUC system. In fact, modern historians use AUC much more frequently than the Romans themselves did.
Arapawa Island: Arapawa Island is a small island located in the Marlborough Sounds, at the north east tip of the South Island of New Zealand. The island has a land area of 75 km (29 sq. miles). Queen Charlotte Sound defines its western side, while to the south lies Tory Channel, which is on the sea route from Wellington in the North Island to Picton.
Arthur Phillip: Admiral Arthur Phillip RN (11 October 1738 - 31 August 1814) was a British admiral and colonial administrator. Phillip was appointed Governor of New South Wales, the first European colony on the Australian continent, and was the founder of the site which is now the city of Sydney.
Administrative law: Administrative law is the body of law that governs the activities of administrative agencies of government. Government agency action can include rulemaking, adjudication, or the enforcement of a specific regulatory agenda. Administrative law is considered a branch of public law.
ARY Group: The ARY Group is a Dubai-based holding company founded by a Pakistani businessman, Haji Abdul Razzak Yaqoob. Abdul is the Chief Executive Officer and owner of the Group. ARY is a diversified group with interests in several sectors, though it is most famous for its contribution to Pakistani television.
Apache disambiguation: Apache is the name of a group of related Native American tribes or a member of these tribes. Apache may also refer to:
Angus: Angus is one of the 32 local government council areas of Scotland, and a lieutenancy area. The council area borders onto Aberdeenshire, Perth and Kinross and Dundee City. Main industries include agriculture and fishing. Angus was historically a county (known officially as Forfarshire from the eighteenth century until 1928, when it reverted to its ancient name) until 1975 when it became a district of the Tayside Region.
Amalthea: Amalthea can refer to: Amalthea (mythology), the foster-mother of Zeus in Greek mythology. Amalthea (moon), a moon of Jupiter. 113 Amalthea, an asteroid in the (main) asteroid belt. Amalthea, a ship bombed by the communist Anton Nilson in Malm, Sweden in 1908. Lady Amalthea, a character in the fantasy novel and animated movie The Last Unicorn.
Andr the Giant: Andr Ren Roussimoff (19 May 1946 - 27 January 1993), best known as Andr the Giant, was a French professional wrestler and actor. His great size was a result of acromegaly, and led to him being dubbed "The Eighth Wonder of the World". In the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), Roussimoff briefly held the WWF Championship. In 1993, he was the first inductee into the WWF Hall of Fame.
Adrastea moon: Adrastea (or as in Greek ), also known as Jupiter XV, is the second by distance, and the smallest of the four inner moons of Jupiter. It was discovered in Voyager 2 probe photographs taken in 1979, making it the first natural satellite to be discovered from images taken by an interplanetary spacecraft, rather than through telescopic photography. It was officially named after the mythological Adrastea, daughter of Greek god Zeusthe equivalent of Roman god Jupiter.
Alph: Alph may refer to: A fictional river mentioned in the poem Kubla Khan by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Alph River, a river in Antarctica. Alph Lake, an associated lake in Antarctica. Alph Lyla, the in-house band of video game developer Capcom. See also Alf
Arbroath Abbey: Arbroath Abbey, in the Scottish town of Arbroath, was founded in 1178 by King William the Lion for a group of Tironensian Benedictine monks from Kelso Abbey. It was consecrated in 1197 with a dedication to the deceased Saint Thomas Becket, whom the king had met at the English court. It was William's only personal foundation - he was buried before the high altar of the church in 1214.
Ananke: Ananke has several meanings: Ananke (moon), a moon of Jupiter Ananke (mythology), in Greek mythology, the mother of the Moirae and Adrasteia, Goddess of destiny, necessity, and fate Ananke (band), a Belgian jazz band
Apache HTTP Server: The Apache HTTP Server, commonly referred to as Apache, is web server software notable for playing a key role in the initial growth of the World Wide Web. In 2009 it became the first web server software to surpass the 100 million web site milestone. Apache was the first viable alternative to the Netscape Communications Corporation web server (currently known as Sun Java System Web Server), and has since evolved to rival other Unix-based web servers in terms of functionality and performance.
Arbitration in the United States: Arbitration, in the context of United States law, is a form of alternative dispute resolution - specifically, a legal alternative to litigation whereby the parties to a dispute agree to submit their respective positions (through agreement or hearing) to a neutral third party (the arbitrator or arbiter) for resolution. In practice arbitration is generally used as a substitute for judicial systems, particularly when the judicial processes are viewed as too slow, expensive or biased.
Accountancy: Accountancy is the art of communicating financial information about a business entity to users such as shareholders and managers. The communication is generally in the form of financial statements that show in money terms the economic resources under the control of management. It is the branch of mathematical science that is useful in discovering the causes of success and failure in business.
Adversarial system: The adversarial system (or adversary system) of law is the system of law that relies on the contest between each advocate representing his or her party's positions and involves an impartial person or group of people, usually a jury or judge, trying to determine the truth of the case. As opposed to that, the inquisitorial system has a judge (or a group of judges who work together) whose task is to investigate the case.
Ant: Ants are social insects of the family Formicidae, and along with the related wasps and bees, they belong to the order Hymenoptera. Ants evolved from wasp-like ancestors in the mid-Cretaceous period between 110 and 130 million years ago and diversified after the rise of flowering plants. More than 12,500 species are classified and the upper estimates of species is about 22,000. They are easily identified by their elbowed antennae and a distinctive node-like structure that forms a slender waist.
Abano Terme: Abano Terme (known as Abano Bagni until 1930) is a town and comune in the province of Padua, in the Veneto region, Italy, on the eastern slope of the Colli Euganei; it is 10 kilometers southwest by rail from Padua. Abano Terme's population is 19,062 (2001) (in 1901 it was only 4,556). The town's hot springs and mud baths are the main economical resource. Waters have a temperature of some 80.
Abated: Abated, an ancient technical term applied in masonry and metal work to those portions which are sunk beneath the surface, as in inscriptions where the ground is sunk round the letters so as to leave the letters or ornament in relief. From 1911 Encyclopia Britannica
Antoine Thomson d'Abbadie: Antoine Thomson d'Abbadie d'Arrast (January 3, 1810 - March 19, 1897) was a French and Basque explorer, geographer, ethnologue, linguist and astronomer notable for his travels in Ethiopia during the first half of the 19th century. He was the older brother of Arnaud Michel d'Abbadie..
Abatis: Abatis, abattis, or abbattis (a French word meaning a heap of material thrown) is a term in field fortification for an obstacle formed of the branches of trees laid in a row, with the sharpened tops directed outwards, towards the enemy. The trees are usually interlaced or tied with wire. Abatis are used alone or in combination with wire entanglements and other obstacles. There is evidence it was used as early as the Roman Imperial period, and as recently as the American Civil War.
Abbas II of Egypt: HH Abbas II Hilmi Bey (also known as Abbas Hilmi Pasha) was the last Khedive of Egypt and Sudan (8 January 1892 - 19 December 1914).
Abba Mari: Abba Mari ben Moses ben Joseph, was a Provenl rabbi, born at Lunel, near Montpellier, towards the end of the 13th century. He is also known as Yarhi from his birthplace, and he further took the name Astruc, Don Astruc or En Astruc of Lunel. The descendant of men learned in rabbinic lore, Abba Mari devoted himself to the study of theology and philosophy, and made himself acquainted with the writings of Moses Maimonides and Nachmanides as well as with the Talmud.
George Abbot archbishop: George Abbot (19 October 1562 - 5 August 1633) was an English divine and Archbishop of Canterbury. He also served as the fourth Chancellor of Trinity College, Dublin, between 1612 and 1633. The Chambers Biographical Dictionary describes him as "[a] sincere but narrow-minded Calvinist". His brother Robert was Bishop of Salisbury.
Abbas Mirza: Field-Marshal Abbas Mirza ( in Persian) (August 26, 1789 - October 25, 1833), was a Qajar crown prince of Persia. He developed a reputation as a military commander during wars with Russia and the Ottoman Empire, as an early modernizer of Persia's armed forces and institutions, and for his death before his father, Fath Ali Shah. Abbas was an intelligent prince, possessed some literary taste, and is noteworthy on account of the comparative simplicity of his life.
Adware: Adware, or advertising-supported software, is any software package which automatically plays, displays, or downloads advertisements to a computer after the software is installed on it or while the application is being used. Some types of adware are also spyware and can be classified as privacy-invasive software.
Aeclanum: Aeclanum was an ancient town of Samnium, southern Italy, c. 25 km east-southeast of Beneventum, on the Via Appia (near the modern Mirabella Eclano). It became the chief town of the Hirpini after Beneventum had become a Roman colony. Sulla captured it in 89 BC by setting on fire the wooden breastwork by which it was defended, and new fortifications were erected.
Aedesius: Aedesius (Greek , died 355) was a Neoplatonist philosopher and mystic born of a noble Cappadocian family.
Aedicula: In religion in ancient Rome, an aedicula (plural aediculae) is a small shrine. The word aedicula is the diminutive of the Latin aedis or aedes, a temple or house; thus, an aedicula is literally a small house or temple. Many aediculae were household shrines that held small altars or statues of the Lares and Penates. The Lares were Roman deities protecting the house and the family household gods.
Aeacus: Aeacus (also spelled Eus, Greek , "bewailing" or "earth borne") was a mythological king of the island of Aegina in the Saronic Gulf. He was son of Zeus and Aegina, a daughter of the river-god Asopus. He was born in the island of Oenone or Oenopia, to which Aegina had been carried by Zeus to secure her from the anger of her parents, and whence this island was afterwards called Aegina. According to some accounts Aeacus was a son of Zeus and Europa.
Aegean civilizations: Aegean civilization is a general term for the Bronze Age civilizations of Greece around the Aegean Sea. There are in fact three distinct but communicating and interacting geographic regions covered by this term: Crete, the Cyclades and the Greek mainland. Crete is associated with the Minoan civilization from the Early Bronze Age. The Cyclades converge with the mainland during the Early Helladic period and with Crete in the Middle Minoan period. From ca.
Aedui: Aedui, Haedui or Hedui (Gr. Aidouoi - ), were a Gallic people of Gallia Lugdunensis, who inhabited the country between the Arar and Liger, in today's France. The statement in Strabo (ii. 3. 192) that they dwelt between the Arar and Dubis is incorrect. Their territory thus included the greater part of the modern departments of Sae-et-Loire, Ce-d'Or and Nire. According to Livy (v. 34), they took part in the expedition of Bellovesus into Italy in the 6th century BC.
Aegeus: For the Spartan hero Aegeus, see Aegeus (hero). In Greek mythology, Aegeus, also Aigeus, Aegeas or Aigeas (), was an archaic figure in the founding myth of Athens. The "goat-man" who gave his name to the Aegean Sea was, next to Poseidon, the father of Theseus, the founder of Athenian institutions and one of the kings of Athens.
Aegis: Aegis, from Greek , is a large collar or cape worn in ancient times to display the protection provided by a high religious authority or, it is the holder of a protective shield signifying the same, such as a bag-like garment that contained a shield. Sometimes the garment and the shield are merged, with a small version of the shield appearing on the garment. It originally was derived from the protective shield associated with a religious figure when related in myths and images.
Aegisthus: In Greek mythology, Aegisthus was the son of Thyestes and of his daughter, Pelopia. Thyestes felt he had been deprived of the Mycenean throne unfairly by his brother, Atreus. The two battled back and forth several times. In addition, Thyestes had an affair with Atreus' wife, Aerope. In revenge, Atreus killed Thyestes' sons and served them to him unknowingly. After eating his own sons' corpses, Thyestes asked an oracle how best to gain revenge.
Aegadian Islands: The Aegadian Islands, are a group of small mountainous islands in the Mediterranean Sea off the northwest coast of Sicily, Italy, near the city of Trapani, with a total area of 14.46 square miles (37.45 km). Favignana (Aegusa), the largest, lies 10 miles (16 km) south west of Trapani; Levanzo (Phorbantia) 8 miles (13 km) west; while Marettimo, the ancient Iera Nesos, 15 miles (24 km) west of Trapani, is now reckoned as a part of the group.
Aegina: Aegina is one of the Saronic Islands of Greece in the Saronic Gulf, 17 miles (27 km) from Athens. Tradition derives the name from Aegina, the mother of Aeacus, who was born in and ruled the island. During ancient times, Aegina was a rival to Athens, the great sea power of the era. The island, along with offshore islets, comprises the Municipality of Aegina in Piraeus Prefecture, a part of the Attica region. The capital is the town of Aegina (pop.
Aegospotami: Aegospotami ( ) or Aegospotamos (i.e. Goat Streams) is a small river issuing into the Hellespont, northeast of Sestos. At its mouth was the scene of the decisive battle in 405 by which Lysander destroyed the Athenian fleet, ending the Peloponnesian War. The ancient Greek township of that name, whose existence is attested by coins of the 5th and 4th centuries, and the river itself were located in ancient Thrace in the Chersonese.
Aelia Capitolina: Aelia Capitolina was a city built by the emperor Hadrian, and occupied by a Roman colony, on the site of Jerusalem, which was in ruins since 70 AD, leading in part to the Bar Kokhba revolt of 132-136.
Atomic absorption spectroscopy: In analytical chemistry, atomic absorption spectroscopy is a technique for determining the concentration of a particular metal element in a sample. The technique can be used to analyze the concentration of over 70 different metals in a solution. Although atomic absorption spectroscopy dates to the nineteenth century, the modern form was largely developed during the 1950s by a team of Australian chemists.
Arthur St. Clair: Arthur St. Clair (March 23, 1737 - August 31, 1818) was an American soldier and politician. Born in Scotland, he served in the British Army during the French and Indian War before settling in Pennsylvania, where he held local office. During the American Revolutionary War, he rose to the rank of major general in the Continental Army, but lost his command after a controversial retreat.
Aelianus Tacticus: Aelianus Tacticus was a Greek military writer of the 2nd century, resident at Rome. Aelian's military treatise in fifty-three chapters on the tactics of the Greeks, titled "On Tactical Arrays of the Greeks" ( ), is dedicated to Hadrian, though this is probably a mistake for Trajan, and the date 106 has been assigned to it. It is a handbook of Greek, i.e. Macedonian, drill and tactics as practiced by the Hellenistic successors of Alexander the Great.
Ajaigarh: Ajaigarh, or Adjygurh, is town and a nagar panchayat in the Panna District of Madhya Pradesh state in central India.
Ajaccio: Ajaccio, is a commune in France. It is the capital of the region of Corsica and the prefecture of the department of Corse-du-Sud. The geopolitical arrangements of the commune are slightly different from those typical of Corsica and France. Usually an arrondissement includes cantons and a canton includes one to several communes including the chef-lieu, "chief place", from which the canton takes its name.
Ajanta Caves: Ajanta Caves in Maharashtra, India are rock-cut cave monuments dating from the second century BCE, containing paintings and sculpture considered to be masterpieces of both Buddhist religious art and universal pictorial art. The caves are located just outside the village of Ajinh in Aurangabad district in the Indian state of Maharashtra (N. lat. 20 deg. 30' by E. long. 75 deg. 40'). Since 1983, the Ajanta Caves have been a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Abatement of debts and legacies: Abatement of debts and legacies is a common law doctrine of wills that holds that when the equitable assets of a deceased person are not sufficient to satisfy fully all the creditors, their debts must abate proportionately, and they must accept a dividend. In the case of legacies when the funds or assets out of which they are payable are not sufficient to pay them in full, the legacies abate in proportion, unless there is a priority given specially to any particular legacy.
Ajmer-Merwara: Ajmer-Merwara (also Ajmere-Merwara) is a former province of British India in the historical Ajmer region. The territory of the province was ceded to the British by Daulat Rao Sindhia by a treaty on June 25, 1818. The province consisted of the districts of Ajmer and Merwara, which were physically separated by the territory of Rajputana Agency. Ajmer-Merwara was administered directly by the British Raj, by a chief commissioner who was subordinate to the governor-general's agent for Rajputana.
Affection: Affection is a "disposition or state of mind or body" that is often associated with a feeling or type of love. It has given rise to a number of branches of philosophy and psychology concerning: emotion; disease; influence; state of being (philosophy); and state of mind (psychology). "Affection" is popularly used to denote a feeling or type of love, amounting to more than goodwill or friendship.
Affinity: Affinity, in etymology affinity is the opposite of infinity . These two words have the same root coming from the Latin: finis = end. Affinity meaning is near to the finis e.g. close to the zero point in a before assumed space. On the other hand, from the Latin, affinis = connected with, having things in common, and it is utilized to interpret the effective possibility that some substances can or cannot mix together, in terms of sympathies and antipathies.
Affiliation: In law, affiliation (from Latin ad-filiare, to adopt as a son) is the term to describe a partnership between two or more parties.
Ajmer: Ajmer, formerly written Ajmere, is a city in Ajmer District in India's Rajasthan state. Surrounded by the Aravalli Mountains, Ajmer, also known as Ajaymeru, was the city once ruled by Prithviraj Chauhan. Its population was approximately 500,000 in 2001. The city gives its name to Ajmer district, and also to a former province of British India called Ajmer-Merwara, which, after India's independence, became the state of Ajmer. On November 1, 1956, it was merged into Rajasthan state.
Affray: In many legal jurisdictions related to English common law, affray is a public order offence consisting of the fighting of two or more persons in a public place to the terror of ordinary people . Depending on their actions, and the laws of the prevailing jurisdiction, those engaged in an affray may also render themselves liable to prosecution for assault, unlawful assembly, or riot; in that event it is for one of these offences that they are usually charged.
Abba Arika: Abba Arika (175-247) (born Abba bar Aybo) was a Jewish Talmudist who lived in Babylonia, known as an amora (commentator on the Oral Law) of the 3rd century who established at Sura the systematic study of the rabbinic traditions, which, using the Mishnah as text, led to the compilation of the Talmud. With him began the long period of ascendancy of the great academies of Babylonia, around the year 220. He is commonly known simply as Rav .
Abbahu: Abbahu was a Jewish Talmudist, known as an amora, who lived in the Land of Israel, of the 3rd amoraic generation (about 279-320), sometimes cited as R. Abbahu of Caesarea (isrin). His rabbinic education was acquired mainly at Tiberias, in the academy presided over by R. Johanan, with whom his relations were almost those of a son. He frequently made pilgrimages to Tiberias, even after he had become well known as rector of the Caesarean Academy.
Afyonkarahisar: Afyonkarahisar is a city in western Turkey, the capital of Afyon Province. Afyon is in mountainous countryside inland from the Aegean coast, 250 km (155 mi) south-west of Ankara along the Akar River. Elevation 1,034 m (3,392 ft). Population (2008 census) 170 455 . Being high up the weather in winter is cold and the roads are icy.
Abbreviator: Abbreviator, plural Abbreviators in English or Abbreviatores in Latin, also called Breviators, were a body of writers in the papal chancery, whose business was to sketch out and prepare in due form the pope's bulls, briefs and consistorial decrees before these are written out in extenso by the scriptores. They are first mentioned in the papal bulls Extravagantes of Pope John XXII and of Pope Benedict XII.
Abd-el-latif: Abd-al-latif, Abd-el-latif or Abd-ul-Latif (1162-1231), also known as al-Baghdadi, born in Baghdad, Iraq, was a celebrated physician, historian, Egyptologist and traveller, and one of the most voluminous writers of the Near East in his time.
Afghan Turkestan: Afghan Turkestan is a region in northern Afghanistan, on the border with the former Soviet republics of Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. It was the name of a former province in this area, which was centred on Mazari Sharif and included territory in the modern provinces of Balkh, Jowzjan, Faryab and Sar-e Pol.
Abd ar-Rahman I: Abd ar-Rahman I was the founder of the Umayyad Emirate of Cdoba (755), a Muslim dynasty that ruled the greater part of Iberia for nearly three centuries (including the succeeding Caliphate of Cdoba). The Muslims called the regions of Iberia under their dominion al-Andalus. Abd ar-Rahman's establishment of a government in al-Andalus represented a branching from the rest of the Islamic Empire, which had been usurped by the Abbasid overthrow of the Umayyads from Damascus in 750.
Abd ar-Rahman II: Abd ar-Rahman II was Umayyad Emir of Cordoba in the Al-Andalus from 822 until his death. He was born in Toledo, the son of Emir Al-Hakam I. In his youth he took part in the so-called "massacre of the ditch", when from 700 to 5000 people come to pay homage to the prince were killed by order of Al-Hakam. He succeeded his father as Emir of Cdoba in 822 and engaged in nearly continuous warfare against Alfonso II of Asturias, whose southward advance he halted (822-842).
Abd ar-Rahman IV: Abd ar-Rahman IV Mortada () was the Caliph of Cordoba in the Umayyad dynasty of the Al-Andalus, succeeding Suleiman II, in 1018. That same year, he was murdered at Cadiz while fleeing from a battle in which he had been deserted by the very supporters which had brought him into power. His brief reign was similar to that of Abd ar-Rahman V Mostadir. |-
Abd ar-Rahman V: In the agony of the Umayyad dynasty in the Al-Andalus, two princes of the house were proclaimed Caliph of Cordoba for a very short time, Abd-ar-Rahman IV Mortada (1017), and Abd-ar-Rahman V Mostadir (1023-1024). Both were the mere puppets of factions, who deserted them at once. Abd-ar-Rahman IV was murdered the same year he was proclaimed at Cadiz, in flight from a battle in which he had been deserted by his supporters.
Abd-ar-Rahman III: Abd-ar-Rahman III was the Emir and Caliph of Cdoba (912-961) of the Ummayad dynasty in al-Andalus. Called al-Nasir ("the Defender "), he ascended the throne when he was twenty-two years of age and reigned for half a century as the most powerful prince of Iberia.
Abd laziz: Abdlaziz I or Abd Al-Aziz, His Imperial Majesty (February 9/18 1830 - 4 June 1876) was the 32nd Sultan of the Ottoman Empire and reigned between 25 June 1861 and 30 May 1876. He was the son of Sultan Mahmud II and succeeded his brother Abdlmecid I in 1861. Born at the Eyp Palace, Istanbul, on 9/18 February 1830, Abdlaziz received an Ottoman education but was nevertheless an ardent admirer of the material progress that was made in the West.
Abdera Thrace: Abdera was a city-state on the coast of Thrace 17 km east-northeast of the mouth of the Nestos, and almost opposite Thasos. The site now lies in the Xanthi Prefecture of modern Greece. The municipality of Abdera, or dira, has 3,917 inhabitants (2001).
Acquis communautaire: The term acquis communautaire, or (EU) acquis, is used in European Union law to refer to the total body of EU law accumulated thus far. The term is French: acquis means "that which has been acquired", and communautaire means "of the community".
Abdera Spain: Abdera was an ancient seaport town on the south coast of Spain, between Malaca and Carthago Nova, in the district inhabited by the Bastuli. It was founded by the Carthaginians as a trading station, and after a period of decline became under the Romans one of the more important towns in the province of Hispania Baetica. It was situated on a hill above the modern Adra.
Apollos: Apollos (; contracted from Apollonius) was an early Alexandrian Jewish Christian mentioned several times in the New Testament. After the Christian couple Priscilla and Aquila corrected his incomplete Christian doctrine, his special gifts in preaching Jesus persuasively made him an important person in the congregation at Corinth, Greece after Paul's first visit there. He was with Paul at a later date in Ephesus.
Antidiarrhoeal: An anti-diarrheal drug is any medication which provides symptomatic relief for diarrhea.
Antacid: An antacid is any substance, generally a base or basic salt, which neutralizes stomach acidity.
Abencerrages: The Abencerrages (from the Arabic for "Saddler's Son"), were a family or faction that is said to have held a prominent position in the Moorish kingdom of Granada in the 15th century. The name appears to have been derived from the Yussuf ben-Serragh, the head of the tribe in the time of Mohammed VII of Granada, al-Mustain, who did that sovereign good service in his struggles to retain the crown of which he was three times deprived.
Abdul Hamid I: Abdlhamid I, Abdul Hamid I or Abd Al-Hamid I, called the Servant of God (March 20, 1725 - April 7, 1789), was the 27th Sultan of the Ottoman Empire. He was the son of sultan Ahmed III (1703-30) and succeeded his brother Mustafa III (1757-74) on January 21, 1774. He was born in Istanbul. His mother was Valide Sultan Rabia Sharmi.
 ed mac Cin eda: d mac Cinda (died 878) was a son of Cind mac Ailpn ("Kenneth MacAlpin"). He became king of the Picts in 877 when he succeeded his brother Constantn mac Cinda. He was nicknamed d of the White Flowers, the Wing-footed or the white-foot. The Chronicle of the Kings of Alba says of d: "Edus [d] held the same [i.e. the kingdom] for one year. The shortness of his reign has bequeathed nothing memorable to history. He was slain in the civitas of Nrurim. " Nrurim is unidentified.
Abdur Rahman Khan: Abdur Rahman Khan (b. between 1840 to 1844 - d. October 1, 1901) was Emir of Afghanistan from 1880 to 1901. He was the third son of Afzul Khan, and grandson of Dost Mohammad Khan, who had established the Barakzai dynasty in Afghanistan. Abdur Rehman Khan was considered a strong ruler who re-established the writ of the Afghan government in Kabul after the disarray that followed the second Anglo-Afghan war.
Aberavon UK Parliament constituency: Aberavon is a constituency in the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was created for the 1918 general election and returns one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system. The seat has been held by the Labour Party since its creation, and for seven years was held by Ramsay MacDonald, the Prime Minister in 1924 and from 1929 to 1935.
Abercarn: Abercarn is a small town community in Caerphilly county borough, Wales, 10 miles (16 km) north-west of Newport on the A467 between Cwmcarn and Newbridge, within the historic boundaries of Monmouthshire.
Aberration of light: The aberration of light (also referred to as astronomical aberration or stellar aberration) is an astronomical phenomenon which produces an apparent motion of celestial objects about their real locations. It was discovered and later explained by the third Astronomer Royal, James Bradley, in 1725, who attributed it to the finite speed of light and the motion of Earth in its orbit around the Sun.
Optical aberration: Aberrations are departures of the performance of an optical system from the predictions of paraxial optics. Aberration leads to blurring of the image produced by an image-forming optical system. It occurs when light from one point of an object after transmission through the system does not converge into (or does not diverge from) a single point. Instrument-makers need to correct optical systems to compensate for aberration.
Amy Grant: Amy Lee Grant (born November 25, 1960) is an American singer-songwriter, musician, author, media personality and occasional actress, best known for her Gospel and Contemporary Christian music. Grant made her debut as a teenager, and gained fame in Contemporary Christian music during the 1980s with such hits as "Father's Eyes," "El Shaddai," and "Angels.
Arthur William Beckett: Arthur William Beckett (1844 - 14 January 1909), English journalist and man of letters. He was a younger son of Gilbert Abbott Beckett and brother of Gilbert Arthur Beckett. Educated Felsted School Beckett was on the staff of Punch from 1874 to 1902, and gave an account of his father and his own reminiscences in The A Becketts of Punch (1903). A childhood friend (and distant relative) of W. S.
Aberdeen South Dakota: Aberdeen is a city and the county seat of Brown County, South Dakota, USA, about 125 mi (200 km) northeast of Pierre. Settled in 1880, it was incorporated in 1882. The city population was 24,658 at the 2000 census. The American News is the local newspaper. Also it is the home of Northern State University (NSU), and Presentation College (PC).
Au: Au or AU may refer to:
Aberdare: Aberdare is an industrial town in Rhondda Cynon Taf, Wales, situated (as the name implies) at the confluence of the River Dar and Cynon. The population at the (1991) census was 31,619. It is 4 miles (6.4 km) south west of Merthyr Tydfil and 24 miles (39 km) north west of Cardiff.
Aberdour: Aberdour is a scenic and historic village on the south coast of Fife, Scotland. It is situated on the north shore of the Firth of Forth, looking south to the Island of Inchcolm and its Abbey, and to Leith and Edinburgh beyond. According to the 2006 population estimate, the village has a population of 1,680. The village's winding main street lies a little inland from the coast. Narrow lanes run off it, providing access to the more hidden parts of the village and the shoreline itself.
Abersychan: Abersychan is a settlement and community north of Pontypool in Torfaen, Wales, within the historic boundaries of Monmouthshire. It has a population of 6,826. It lies in the narrow northern section of the Afon Llwyd valley. The town includes three schools, Abersychan Comprehensive School, Victoria Primary School and St. Francis' R.C. Primary School (although the latter is due to close, along with St. Alban's R.C. Primary School, to be replaced by the new Padre Pio R.C.
Abergavenny: Abergavenny, meaning Mouth of the River Gavenny, is a market town in Monmouthshire, Wales. It is located 24 km (15 mi) west of Monmouth on the A40 and A465 roads, 10 km (6 mi) from the English border within the Welsh Marches.
Abeyance: Abeyance, (from the Old French abeance meaning "gaping"), is a state of expectancy in respect of property, titles or office, when the right to them is not vested in any one person, but awaits the appearance or determination of the true owner. In law, the term abeyance can only be applied to such future estates as have not yet vested or possibly may not vest. For example, an estate is granted to A for life, with remainder to the heir of B.
Abettor: Abettor (from to abet, Old French abeter, and beter, to bait, urge dogs upon any one; this word is probably of Scandinavian origin, meaning to cause to bite), is a law term implying one who instigates, encourages or assists another to commit an offence.
Anders Celsius: Anders Celsius (27 November 1701 - 25 April 1744) was a Swedish astronomer. He was professor of astronomy at Uppsala University from 1730 to 1744, but traveled from 1732 to 1735 visiting notable observatories in Germany, Italy and France. He founded the Uppsala Astronomical Observatory in 1741, and in 1742 he proposed the Celsius temperature scale which takes his name. The scale was later reversed in 1745 by Carl Linnaeus, one year after Celsius' death.
Abertillery: Abertillery is a town in the county borough of Blaenau Gwent in southern Wales, 16 miles (26 km) north-west of Newport, originally on the Great Western Railway. Its population rose steeply during the period of mining development in South Wales, being 10,846 in the 1891 census and 21,945 ten years later.
Adam Carolla: Adam Carolla (born May 27, 1964) is an American radio personality and television host, comedian and actor. He is the host of The Adam Carolla Podcast, before which he hosted a weekday morning radio program broadcast from Los Angeles and syndicated by CBS Radio until his home station changed formats.
Autocorrelation: Autocorrelation is the cross-correlation of a signal with itself. Informally, it is the similarity between observations as a function of the time separation between them. It is a mathematical tool for finding repeating patterns, such as the presence of a periodic signal which has been buried under noise, or identifying the missing fundamental frequency in a signal implied by its harmonic frequencies.
Arthur J. Stone: Arthur J. Stone (1847-1938), a leading American silversmith, was born, trained and worked in Sheffield, England, and Edinburgh, Scotland, before travelling to the United States in 1884. He was one of the last silversmiths in America to train apprentices to carry out designs in hand-wrought silver. In 1901, Stone set up a workshop in Gardner, Massachusetts which operated under his name until its sale in 1937 to Henry Heywood.
Aberfoyle Stirling: Aberfoyle is a village in the region of Stirling, Scotland, 27 miles (43 km) northwest of Glasgow. The town is situated at the base of Craigmore (1,271 foot / 387 metres high) and on the Laggan, a head-water of the River Forth.
Au file format: The Au file format is a simple audio file format introduced by Sun Microsystems. The format was common on NeXT systems and on early Web pages. Originally it was headerless, being simply 8-bit -law-encoded data at an 8000 Hz sample rate. Hardware from other vendors often used sample rates as high as 8192 Hz, often integer factors of video clock signals. Newer files have a header that consists of six unsigned 32-bit words, an optional information chunk and then the data.
Atlas Autocode: Atlas Autocode (AA) was a programming language developed around 1965 at Manchester University for the Atlas Computer. It was developed by Tony Brooker and Derrick Morris as an improvement on the ALGOL programming languages, removing some of Algol's poorer features such as "passing parameters by name" (which with Algol 60 meant not its usual meaning but passing the address of a short subroutine to recalculate the parameter each time it was mentioned).
April 25: It is also the latest possible day that Easter can occur, next occurring in 2038.
Abhorrers: Abhorrers, the name given in 1679 to the persons who expressed their abhorrence at the action of those who had signed petitions urging King Charles II of England to assemble Parliament. Feeling against Catholics, and especially against James, Duke of York, was running strongly; the Exclusion Bill had been passed by the House of Commons, and the popularity of James Scott, 1st Duke of Monmouth, was very great.
Abiathar: Abiathar (, Ebyathar, Evyatar, the father is pre-eminent), in the Bible, son of Achimelech or Ahijah, priest at Nob, the fourth in descent from Eli. The only one of the priests to escape from Saul's massacre, he fled to David at Keilah, taking with him the ephod . He was of great service to David, especially at the time of the rebellion of Absalom . In 1 Kings 4:4 Zadok and Abiathar are found acting together as priests under Solomon. In 1 Kings i.
Andalusia: Andalusia is an autonomous community of Spain, considered as an historical nationality. It is the most populous (8,285,692 inhabitants in 2009) and the second largest, in terms of land area, of the seventeen autonomous communities of the Kingdom of Spain. Its capital and largest city is Seville . The region is divided into eight provinces: Huelva, Seville, Ciz, Cdoba, Maga, Ja, Granada and Almera.
Abigail: Abigail is a female name occurring in Biblical narratives in the Books of Samuel and in the Books of Chronicles. Abigal occurs once and is thought by the vast majority of scholars to be an alternate spelling of Abigail. There appear to be two individuals named Abigail: The mother of Amasa.
Aspartame: Aspartame (or APM) is the name for an artificial, non-saccharide sweetener used as a sugar substitute in many foods and beverages. In the European Union, it is known under the E number (additive code) E951. Aspartame is the methyl ester of a phenylalanine/aspartic acid dipeptide. Aspartame was first synthesized in 1965. Its use in food products was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration in 1980.
AutoCAD: AutoCAD is a CAD (Computer Aided Design or Computer Aided Drafting) software application for 2D and 3D design and drafting, developed and sold by Autodesk, Inc. Initially released in late 1982, AutoCAD was one of the first CAD programs to run on personal computers, and notably the IBM PC. Most CAD software at the time ran on graphics terminals connected to mainframe computers or mini-computers.
Arabian Sea: The Arabian Sea is a region of the Indian Ocean bounded on the east by India, on the north by Pakistan and Iran, on the west by the Arabian Peninsula, on the south, approximately, by a line between Cape Guardafui, the north-east point of Somalia, Socotra, and Kanyakumari in India.
AutoCAD DXF: AutoCAD DXF (Drawing Interchange Format, or Drawing Exchange Format) is a CAD data file format developed by Autodesk for enabling data interoperability between AutoCAD and other programs. DXF was originally introduced in December 1982 as part of AutoCAD 1.0, and was intended to provide an exact representation of the data in the AutoCAD native file format, DWG (Drawing), for which Autodesk for many years did not publish specifications.
Azad Kashmir: Azad Jammu and Kashmir or Azad Kashmir for short (literally, "Free Kashmir"), is the southernmost political entity within the Pakistani-controlled part of the former princely state of Jammu and Kashmir.
Asexual reproduction: Asexual reproduction is reproduction which does not involve meiosis, ploidy reduction, or fertilization. Only one parent is involved in asexual reproduction. A more stringent definition is agamogenesis which refers to reproduction without the fusion of gametes. Asexual reproduction is the primary form of reproduction for single-celled organisms such as the archaea, bacteria, and protists. Many plants and fungi reproduce asexually as well.
Aelbert Cuyp: Aelbert Jacobsz Cuyp (October 20, 1620 - November 15, 1691) was one of the leading Dutch landscape painters of the Dutch Golden Age in the 17th century. The most famous of a family of painters, the pupil of his father Jacob Gerritsz. Cuyp (1594-1651/52), he is especially known for his large views of the Dutch countryside in early morning or late afternoon light.
Allene: An allene is a hydrocarbon in which one atom of carbon is connected by double bonds with two other atoms of carbon. Allene also is the common name for the parent compound of this series, propadiene. Such pair of bonds make allenes much more reactive than other alkenes. For example, their reactivity with gaseous chlorine is more like the reactivity of alkynes. Allenes can be chiral.
Alkyne: Alkynes are hydrocarbons that have a triple bond between two carbon atoms, with the formula CnH2n-2. Alkynes are traditionally known as acetylenes, although the name acetylene also refers specifically to C2H2, known formally as ethyne using IUPAC nomenclature. Like other hydrocarbons, alkynes are generally hydrophobic but tend to be more reactive.
AbiWord: AbiWord is a free and open source software word processor. It was originally started by SourceGear Corporation as the first part of a proposed AbiSuite. Development stopped when SourceGear changed their focus to Internet appliances. AbiWord was adopted by some open source developers and AbiWord continued to be developed. The name "AbiWord" (pronounced "Abby Word") is derived from the root of the Spanish word "'", meaning "open".
ACE inhibitor: ACE inhibitors or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, are a group of pharmaceuticals that are used primarily in treatment of hypertension and congestive heart failure, in some cases as the drugs of first choice.
Ames test: The Ames test is a biological assay to assess the mutagenic potential of chemical compounds. A positive test indicates that the chemical might act as a carcinogen (although a number of false-positives and false-negatives are known). As cancer is often linked to DNA damage, the test also serves as a quick assay to estimate the carcinogenic potential of a compound since it is difficult to ascertain whether standard carcinogen assays on rodents were successful.
Alkene: In organic chemistry, an alkene, olefin, or olefine is an unsaturated chemical compound containing at least one carbon-to-carbon double bond. The simplest acyclic alkenes, with only one double bond and no other functional groups, form an homologous series of hydrocarbons with the general formula CnH2n. The simplest alkene is ethylene (C2H4), which has the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) name ethene.
Antianginal: An antianginal is any drug used in the treatment of angina pectoris, a symptom of ischaemic heart disease.
Air conditioner: An air conditioner is a home appliance, system, or mechanism designed to dehumidify and extract heat from an area. The cooling is done using a simple refrigeration cycle. In construction, a complete system of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning is referred to as "HVAC. " Its purpose, in a building or an automobile, is to provide comfort during either hot or cold weather.
Atari 2600: The Atari 2600 is a video game console released in October 1977. It is credited with popularizing the use of microprocessor-based hardware and cartridges containing game code, instead of having non-microprocessor dedicated hardware with all games built in. The first game console to use this format was the Fairchild Channel F; however, the Atari 2600 is credited with making the plug-in concept popular among the game-playing public.
Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Classification System: The Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) Classification System is used for the classification of drugs. It is controlled by the WHO Collaborating Centre for Drug Statistics Methodology (WHOCC), and was first published in 1976. The classification system divides drugs into different groups according to the organ or system on which they act and/or their therapeutic and chemical characteristics.
Atari 5200: The Atari 5200 SuperSystem, or simply the Atari 5200, is a video game console that was introduced in 1982 by Atari Inc. as a replacement for the popular Atari 2600. The 5200 was created to compete with the Intellivision, but wound up more directly competing with the ColecoVision shortly after its release. The 5200 was based on Atari Inc. 's existing 400/800 computers and the internal hardware was almost identical, although software was not directly compatible between the two systems.
Parallel ATA: Parallel ATA (PATA) is an interface standard for the connection of storage devices such as hard disks, solid-state drives, floppy drives, and CD-ROM drives in computers. The standard is maintained by X3/INCITS committee. It uses the underlying AT Attachment and AT Attachment Packet Interface (ATA/ATAPI) standards. The current Parallel ATA standard is the result of a long history of incremental technical development.
Atari Jaguar: The Atari Jaguar was a video game console released by Atari Corporation in 1993. It was designed to surpass the Mega Drive/Genesis and the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in processing power. It was in competition with 3DO and later consoles that made up the Fifth generation of video game consoles. The console was first released in selected U.S. cities in November 1993, and the rest of the country in early 1994.
Atari 7800: The Atari 7800 ProSystem, or simply the Atari 7800, is a video game console re-released by Atari Corporation in January 1986. The original release had occurred two years earlier under Atari Inc. The 7800 was designed to replace Atari Inc. 's unsuccessful Atari 5200 and later to re-establish Atari Corp. 's market supremacy against Nintendo and Sega. With this system, Atari Inc.
Atari Lynx: The Atari Lynx is a 16-bit handheld game console that was released by Atari Corporation in 1989. The Lynx holds the distinction of being the world's first handheld electronic game with a color LCD display. The system is also notable for its forward-looking features, advanced graphics, and ambidextrous layout. The Lynx was released in 1989, the same year as Nintendo's (monochromatic) Game Boy.
Ahimsa: Ahimsa is a term meaning to do no harm . It is an important tenet of the religions that originated in ancient India. Ahimsa is a rule of conduct that bars the killing or injuring of living beings. It is closely connected with the notion that all kinds of violence entail negative karmic consequences.
Annals of Mathematics: The Annals of Mathematics (often just called Annals) is a bimonthly mathematical journal published by Princeton University and the Institute for Advanced Study. It ranks amongst the most prestigious mathematics journals in the world by criteria such as impact factor.
Andrei Sakharov: Andrei Dmitrievich Sakharov was an eminent Soviet nuclear physicist, dissident and human rights activist. Sakharov was an advocate of civil liberties and reforms in the Soviet Union. He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1975.
Astrobiology: Astrobiology (other terms have been exobiology, exopaleontology, bioastronomy, and rarely xenobiology) is the study of the origin, evolution, distribution, and future of life in the universe.
Air show: An air show is an event at which aviators display their flying skills and the capabilities of their aircraft to spectators in aerobatics. Air shows without aerobatic displays, having only aircraft displayed parked on the ground, are called "static air shows". Some air shows are held as a business venture or as a trade event where aircraft, avionics and other services are promoted to potential customers. Many air shows are held in support of local, national or military charities.
Anthropic principle: In physics and cosmology, the anthropic principle is the collective name for several ways of asserting that the observations of the physical Universe must be compatible with the life observed in it.
Akihabara: Akihabara ("Field of Autumn Leaves"), also known as Akihabara Electric Town, is an area of Tokyo, Japan. It is located less than five minutes by rail from Tokyo Station. Its name is frequently shortened to Akiba in Japan. While there is an official locality named Akihabara nearby, part of Tait-ku, the area known to most people as Akihabara (including the railway station of the same name) is actually Soto-Kanda, a part of Chiyoda-ku.
Australian Army: The Australian Army is Australia's military land force. It is part of the Australian Defence Force (ADF) along with the Royal Australian Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. While the Chief of Defence (CDF) commands the Australian Defence Force (ADF), the Army is commanded by the Chief of Army (CA). The CA is therefore subordinate to the CDF, but is also directly responsible to the Minister for Defence.
Arian: Arian may refer to: Arius Arianism Arian controversy, several controversies which divided the early Christian church Arians or Areians, ancient tribe, living in Aria (satrapy), now in western Afghanistan Aryan, a term associated with the Proto-Indo-Iranians Aryan race, the racial concept Arian Band, a band Polish Brethren, also known as Arians Aries (astrology)
Aldona of Lithuania: Aldona (baptized Ona or Anna; her pagan name Aldona is known only from the writings of Maciej Stryjkowski; ca. 1309 - 26 May 1339) was the Queen of Poland (1333-1339), and the Princess of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. She was the daughter of Gediminas, Grand Duke of Lithuania.
American Registry for Internet Numbers: The American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN) is the Regional Internet Registry (RIR) for Canada, many Caribbean and North Atlantic islands, and the United States. ARIN manages the distribution of Internet number resources, including IPv4 and IPv6 address space and AS numbers. ARIN opened its doors for business on 22 December 1997 after incorporating on 18 April 1997. ARIN is a nonprofit corporation in the Commonwealth of Virginia, a U.S. state.
Aragonese language: Aragonese (in English, aragon in Spanish), is a Romance language now spoken in a number of local varieties by between 10,000 and 30,000 people over the valleys of the Arag River, Sobrarbe and Ribagorza in Aragon. It is also colloquially known as fabla (literally, "speech") and is the only remaining speech form derived from medieval Navarro-Aragonese dialects.
Advanced Mobile Phone System: Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS) was an analog mobile phone system standard developed by Bell Labs, and officially introduced in the Americas in 1983 and Australia in 1987. It was the primary analog mobile phone system in North America (and other locales) through the 1980s and into the 2000s. As of February 18, 2008, carriers in the United States were no longer required to support AMPS and companies such as AT&T and Verizon have discontinued this service permanently.
Aron Nimzowitsch: Aron Nimzowitsch or Aron Isaevich Nimtsovich (7 November 1886 - 16 March 1935) was a Latvian-born Danish unofficial chess grandmaster and a very influential chess writer. He was the foremost figure amongst the hypermoderns.
Aerodynamics: Aerodynamics is a branch of dynamics concerned with studying the motion of air, particularly when it interacts with a moving object. Aerodynamics is a subfield of fluid dynamics and gas dynamics, with much theory shared between them. Aerodynamics is often used synonymously with gas dynamics, with the difference being that gas dynamics applies to all gases.
Andreas Schl ter: Andreas Schlter (20 May 1664 in Hamburg - May 1714) was a German baroque sculptor and architect associated with the Petrine Baroque style of architecture and decoration.
Ash: Ash may refer to:
Alphabet song: An alphabet song is any of various songs used to teach children the alphabet, used in kindergartens, pre-schools and homes around the world. Alphabet songs typically follow the alphabetic principle (though the phonics method offers variants), which in languages like English with morphophonemic variation represents a particular modality of pronunciation .
Antigonid dynasty: The Antigonid dynasty was a dynasty of Hellenistic kings descended from Alexander the Great's general Antigonus I Monophthalmus ("the One-eyed").
Antiderivative: In calculus, an antiderivative, primitive or indefinite integral
A Vindication of the Rights of Woman: A Vindication of the Rights of Woman: with Strictures on Political and Moral Subjects, written by the eighteenth-century British feminist Mary Wollstonecraft, is one of the earliest works of feminist philosophy. In it, Wollstonecraft responds to those educational and political theorists of the eighteenth century who did not believe women should have an education.
Afghan Hound: The Afghan Hound is one of the oldest, if not the first sighthound dog breed. Distinguished by its thick, fine, silky coat and its tail with a ring curl at the end, the breed acquired its unique features in the cold mountains of Afghanistan, where it was originally used to hunt hares, and gazelles by coursing them. Its local name is Sag-e Tz or T Spai.
Azawakh: The Azawakh is a sighthound dog breed from Africa.
Abjuration: Abjuration is the solemn repudiation, abandonment, or renunciation by or upon oath, often the renunciation of citizenship or some other right or privilege. It comes from the Latin abjurare, "to forswear". Abjuration of the realm was a type of abjuration in ancient English law that was a renunciation of citizenship, a type of self-imposed exile. The person taking the oath swore never to return to the kingdom unless by permission.
Acrylic paint: Acrylic paint is fast-drying paint containing pigment suspended in an polymer emulsion. Acrylic paints can be diluted with water, but become water-resistant when dry. Depending on how much the paint is diluted (with water) or modified with acrylic gels, media, or pastes, the finished acrylic painting can resemble a watercolor or an oil painting, or have its own unique characteristics not attainable with other media.
Atomic theory: In chemistry and physics, atomic theory is a theory of the nature of matter, which states that matter is composed of discrete units called atoms, as opposed to the obsolete notion that matter could be divided into any arbitrarily small quantity. It began as a philosophical concept in ancient Greece and India and entered the scientific mainstream in the early 19th century when discoveries in the field of chemistry showed that matter did indeed behave as if it were made up of particles.
Angular momentum: In physics, angular momentum, or moment of momentum, is a conserved vector quantity that can be used to describe the overall rotational state of a physical system. The angular momentum L of a particle with respect to some point of origin is where r is the particle's position from the origin, p = mv is its linear momentum, and denotes the cross product. The angular momentum of a system of particles (e.g. a rigid body) is the sum of angular momenta of the individual particles.
Plum pudding model: The plum pudding model of the atom by J. J. Thomson, who discovered the electron in 1897, was proposed in 1904 before the discovery of the atomic nucleus. In this model, the atom is composed of electrons (which Thomson still called "corpuscles", though G. J. Stoney had proposed that atoms of electricity be called electrons in 1894) surrounded by a soup of positive charge to balance the electron's negative charge, like negatively-charged "plums" surrounded by positively-charged "pudding".
Ai: AI, A.I. , Ai, or ai may refer to:
Abraham Joshua Heschel: Abraham Joshua Heschel (January 11, 1907 - December 23, 1972) was a Warsaw-born American rabbi and one of the leading Jewish theologians and Jewish philosophers of the 20th century.
Aberdeen Bestiary: The Aberdeen Bestiary (Aberdeen University Library, Univ. Lib. MS 24) is a 12th century English illuminated manuscript bestiary that was first listed in 1542 in the inventory of the Old Royal Library at the Palace of Westminster. Information about its origins and patron are circumstantial. It probably comes from the 12th century and was owned by an ecclesiastical patron of the north or south province.
Latin American Integration Association: The Asociaci Latinoamericana de Integraci (the Latin American Integration Association; known as ALADI or, occasionally, by the English acronym LAIA) is a Latin American trade integration association, based in Montevideo. Its main objective is the establishment of a common market, in pursuit of the economic and social development of the region.
Aircraft spotting: Aircraft spotting or plane spotting is the observation and logging registration numbers of aircraft: gliders, powered aircraft, balloons, airships, helicopters, and microlights. When spotting aircraft observers notice the key attributes of an aircraft. They may notice a distinctive noise from its engine or the number of vapour trails it is leaving. They will assess the size of the aircraft and the number, type and position of its engines.
Advertising: Advertising is a form of communication intended to persuade an audience (viewers, readers or listeners) to take some action. It usually includes the name of a product or service and how that product or service could benefit the consumer, to persuade potential customers to purchase or to consume that particular brand. Modern advertising developed with the rise of mass production in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Aung San Suu Kyi: Daw Aung San Suu Kyi AC (born 19 June 1945) is a Burmese opposition politician and General Secretary of the National League for Democracy. In the 1990 general election, Suu Kyi was elected Prime Minister, as leader of the winning National League for Democracy party, which won 59% of the vote and 394 of 492 seats. She had, however, already been detained under house arrest before the elections. She has remained under house arrest in Myanmar for almost 14 out of the past 20 years.
AI-complete: In the field of artificial intelligence, the most difficult problems are informally known as AI-complete or AI-hard, implying that the difficulty of these computational problems is equivalent to solving the central artificial intelligence problemmaking computers as intelligent as people, or strong AI. The term was coined by Fanya Montalvo by analogy with NP-complete and NP-hard in complexity theory, which formally describes the most famous class of difficult problems.
Archaeoastronomy: Archaeoastronomy (also spelled archeoastronomy) is the study of how past people "have understood the phenomena in the sky, how they used phenomena in the sky and what role the sky played in their cultures. " Clive Ruggles argues it is misleading to consider archaeoastronomy to be the study of ancient astronomy, as modern astronomy is a scientific discipline, while archaeoastronomy considers other cultures' symbolically rich cultural interpretations of phenomena in the sky.
Ammeter: An ammeter is a measuring instrument used to measure the electric current in a circuit. Electric currents are measured in amperes (A), hence the name. Smaller values of current can be measured using a milliameter or a microammeter. Early ammeters were laboratory instruments only which relied on the Earth's magnetic field for operation. By the late 19th century, improved instruments were designed which could be mounted in any position and allowed accurate measurements in electric power systems,
Andrzej Sapkowski: Andrzej Sapkowski, born 21 June 1948 in , is a Polish fantasy writer. Sapkowski studied economics, and before turning to writing, he had worked as a senior sales representative for a foreign trade company. His first short story, The Witcher (Wiedmin), was published in Fantastyka, Poland's leading fantasy literary magazine, in 1986 and was enormously successful both with readers and critics.
Antipsychotic: An antipsychotic (or neuroleptic) is a psychiatric medication primarily used to manage psychosis (e.g. delusions or hallucinations), particularly in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. A first generation of antipsychotics, known as typical antipsychotics, was discovered in the 1950s.
Amanda Hesser: Amanda Hesser (born 1972) is an American food writer, editor and cookbook author. She was the food editor of The New York Times Magazine and the editor of T Living, a quarterly publication of The New York Times. She is best known for the Food Diary columns she wrote from 2000-2002 in the The New York Times Magazine, which were collected in her second book, Cooking for Mr.
Akita: Akita is a Japanese name. It may refer to:
Anxiolytic: An anxiolytic (also antipanic or antianxiety agent) is a drug used for the treatment of symptoms of anxiety. Anxiolytics have been shown to be useful in the treatment of anxiety disorders. Though not anxiolytics, beta-receptor blockers such as propranolol and oxprenolol can be used to combat the somatic symptoms of anxiety. Anxiolytics are also known as "minor tranquilizers", though their use and effects are by no means minor; this term is less common in modern texts.
Augustine of Canterbury: Augustine of Canterbury (c. first third of the 6th century - 26 May 604) was a Benedictine monk who became the first Archbishop of Canterbury in the year 598. He is considered the "Apostle to the English" and a founder of the English Church. Augustine was the prior of a monastery in Rome when Pope Gregory the Great chose him in 595 to lead a mission, usually known as the Gregorian mission, to Britain to convert the pagan King helberht of the Kingdom of Kent to Christianity.
Archduke Charles Duke of Teschen: Archduke Charles of Austria, Duke of Teschen (5 September 1771 - 30 April 1847) was an Austrian field-marshal, the son of emperor Leopold II and his wife Infanta Maria Luisa of Spain. He was also the younger brother of Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor. Despite being epileptic, Charles achieved respect both as a commander and as a reformer of the Austrian army. He was considered one of Napoleon's most formidable opponents. He began his career fighting the revolutionary armies of France.
Alexander of Hales: Alexander Hales (also Halensis, Alensis, Halesius, Alesius; called Doctor Irrefragabilis and Theologorum Monarcha) was a scholastic theologian. He was born at Hales, England ca. 1183, and died in Paris on August 21, 1245. He was educated at Oxford, studied and lectured at Paris, and by 1210 was a master of the sacred page in the faculty of theology. He entered the Franciscan order sometime around 1236 thus creating the first formal connection between the Order and the University of Paris.
Active Server Pages: Active Server Pages (ASP), also known as Classic ASP or ASP Classic, was Microsoft's first server-side script engine for dynamically-generated web pages. Initially released as an add-on to Internet Information Services (IIS) via the Windows NT 4.0 Option Pack, it was subsequently included as a free component of Windows Server (since the initial release of Windows 2000 Server). It has now been superseded by ASP. NET.
Amoxicillin: Amoxicillin, formerly amoxycillin, abbreviated AMOX,,TORMOXIN (in India), is a moderate-spectrum, bacteriolytic, -lactam antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections caused by susceptible microorganisms. It is usually the drug of choice within the class because it is better absorbed, following oral administration, than other -lactam antibiotics. It is also a treatment for cystic acne.
A Wizard of Earthsea: A Wizard of Earthsea, first published in 1968, is the first of a series of books written by Ursula K. Le Guin and set in the fantasy world archipelago of Earthsea depicting the adventures of a budding young wizard named Ged. The tale of Ged's growth and development as he travels across Earthsea continues in The Tombs of Atuan and The Farthest Shore and is supplemented in Tehanu and The Other Wind.
Amorphous solid: An "amorphous solid" is a solid in which there is no long-range order of the positions of the atoms. (Solids in which there is long-range atomic order are called crystallines or morphous). Most classes of solid materials can be found or prepared in an amorphous form. For instance, common window glass is an amorphous solid, many polymers are amorphous, and even foods such as cotton candy are amorphous solids.
AZ: AZ, Az or az can mean:
Alex Lifeson: Alex Lifeson, OC (born Aleksandar ivojinovi; August 27, 1953) is a Canadian musician, best known for his work as the guitarist of the Canadian rock band Rush. In the summer of 1968, Lifeson founded the band that would become Rush with friend and original drummer John Rutsey. He has been an integral member of the three-piece band ever since. For Rush, Lifeson plays electric and acoustic guitars as well as other stringed instruments such as mandola, mandolin, and bouzouki.
ArgoUML: ArgoUML is a UML diagramming application written in Java and released under the open source BSD License. By virtue of being a Java application, it is available on any platform supported by Java. ArgoUML was originally developed at UC Irvine by Jason E. Robbins, leading to his Ph.D. It is now an open source project hosted by Tigris. org, a mid-sized open source community focused on building better tools for collaborative software development.
File archiver: A file archiver is a computer program that combines a number of files together into one archive file, or a series of archive files, for easier transportation or storage. Many file archivers employ Archive formats that provide lossless data compression to reduce the size of the archive which is often useful for transferring a large number of individual files over a high latency network like the Internet.
Artemis: Artemis was one of the most widely venerated of the Ancient Greek deities. In the classical period of Greek mythology, Artemis was often described as the daughter of Zeus and Leto, and the twin sister of Apollo. She was the Hellenic goddess of the hunt, wild animals, wilderness, childbirth, virginity, fertility, young girls and disease in women and often was depicted as a huntress carrying a bow and arrows. The deer and the cypress were sacred to her.
Arbeit macht frei: "Arbeit macht frei" (literally "work makes free") is a German phrase that can be translated as "work liberates" or "work makes you free". The slogan is well-known for being placed at the entrances to a number of Nazi concentration camps, including most famously Auschwitz I, where it was made by prisoners with metalwork skills and erected by order of the Nazis in June 1940.
Axayacatl: Axayacatl (pron. - the name means "Water-mask" or "Water-face") was a ruler of the Postclassic Mesoamerican Aztec Empire and city of Tenochtitl, who reigned from 1469 to 1481. He is chiefly remembered for subjugating Tlatelolco, Tenochtitl's sister city, in 1473. Using as a pretext the insulting behavior of a few Tlatelolcan citizens, he invaded his neighbor, killed its ruler, Moquihuix, and replaced him with a military governor.
Amr Diab: Amr Abdel Basset Abdel Azeez Diab is an Egyptian singer and composer of jeel music; the contemporary face of Egyptian al-jeel pop music, according to World Music. Diab is the best-selling Arab recording artist of all time, according to Let's Go Egypt. He was awarded the World Music Award for Best Selling Middle Eastern Artist three times: 1998, 2002 and 2007. Amr Diab is known as the Father of Mediterranean Music.
Dutch hip hop: Dutch hip hop or Nederhop is hip hop music created by musicians in the Netherlands and Flanders.
Albinism: Albinism (from Latin albus, "white"; see, also called achromia, achromasia, or achromatosis) is a congenital disorder characterized by the complete or partial absence of pigment in the skin, hair and eyes due to absence or defect of an enzyme involved in the production of melanin. Albinism results from inheritance of recessive gene alleles and is known to affect all vertebrates, including humans. The most common term used for an organism affected by albinism is "albino".
Ana s Nin: Anas Nin (born Angela Anas Juana Antolina Rosa Edelmira Nin y Culmell) (February 21, 1903 - January 14, 1977) was a French author who became famous for her published journals, which span more than 60 years, beginning when she was 11 years old and ending shortly before her death. Nin is also famous for her erotica.
Belgian hip hop: Belgian hip hop music has a few rappers stemming from Africa, Italy and even Russia. Belgium, like France, controlled African countries like the Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly Zaire), Rwanda, and Burundi until the early 1960s. Like in France, immigrants from these countries started to study and live in Belgium. The Belgian hip hop scene started in the late 1980s with a U.S. -based techno/hip hop group called Technotronic.
AOL Instant Messenger: AOL Instant Messenger (AIM) is an instant messaging and presence computer program which uses the proprietary OSCAR instant messaging protocol and the TOC protocol to allow registered users to communicate in real time. It was released by AOL in May 1997. Stand-alone official AIM client software includes advertisements and is available for Microsoft Windows, Mac OS, Mac OS X, iPhone OS and Linux.
Ahuitzotl: Ahuitzotl was the eighth Aztec ruler, the Hueyi Tlatoani, of the city of Tenochtitlan. He was responsible for much of the expansion of the Mexica domain, and consolidated the empire's power after a weak performance by his predecessor. He took power as Tlatoani in the year 7 Rabbit (1486), after the death of his predecessor Tzoc.
Association for Computing Machinery: The Association for Computing Machinery, or ACM, is a learned society for computing. It was founded in 1947 as the world's first scientific and educational computing society. Its membership is more than 92,000 as of 2009. Its headquarters are in New York City.
Antarctic: The Antarctic is the region around the Earth's South Pole, opposite the Arctic region around the North Pole. The Antarctic comprises the continent of Antarctica and the ice shelves, waters and island territories in the Southern Ocean situated south of the Antarctic Convergence. The region covers some 20% of the Southern Hemisphere, of which 5.5% (14 million km) is the surface area of the continent itself.
Ackermann function: In computability theory, the Ackermann function or Ackermann-Per function is a simple example of a computable function that is not primitive recursive. The set of primitive recursive functions is a subset of the set of general recursive functions. Ackermann's function is an example that shows that the former is a strict subset of the latter.
Alaska Panhandle: The Alaska Panhandle, sometimes referred to as Southeast Alaska, is the southeastern portion of the U.S. state of Alaska, which lies west of the northern half of the Canadian province of British Columbia. The majority of the panhandle's area is part of the Tongass National Forest, the United States' largest national forest. In many places, the international border runs along the crest of the Boundary Ranges of the Coast Mountains.
Anabaptist: Anabaptists (Greek +, thus "re-baptizers") are Christians of the Radical Reformation. This article describes the Anabaptists of 16th-century Europe and their direct descendants, particularly the Amish, Hutterites, and Mennonites. Anabaptists rejected conventional Christian practices such as wearing wedding rings, taking oaths, and participating in civil government. They adhered to a literal interpretation of the Sermon on the Mount and Believer's baptism.
Algemeen Nijmeegs Studentenblad: The Algemeen Nijmeegs Studentenblad is an independent student magazine for the Radboud University Nijmegen. Founded in 1985 by the local student union AKKU, it is now published by the Stichting Multimedia.
ANS: Ans is a Belgian municipality in the province of Lie.
Albanians: Albanians are a people from southeast Europe who live in Albania and neighboring countries. They speak the Albanian language. Roughly half of Albanians live in Albania, with other large groups residing in Kosovo, the Republic of Macedonia and Montenegro. There are Albanian communities in a number of other countries, including Turkey, Greece, Serbia and Italy.
The Bush Alaska: The Bush is a term for the portion of Alaska that are not connected by North America's interconnected system of roadways. The Bush is where the majority of Alaska's native populations live, living off the land like their ancestors. Places referred to as part of the Bush include Bethel,, Dillingham, King Salmon, Nome, Barrow, Katmai National Park, Kodiak Island, Kotzebue, and Unalaska-Dutch Harbor.
Alaska Interior: The Alaska Interior covers most of the U.S. state's territory. It is largely wilderness. Mountains include Mount McKinley (Denali) in the Alaska Range, the Wrangell Mountains, and the Ray Mountains. The largest city in the interior is Fairbanks, Alaska's second-largest city, in the Tanana Valley. Other towns include North Pole, just southeast of Fairbanks, Eagle, Tok, Glennallen, Delta Junction, Nenana, Anderson, Healy and Cantwell.
A Little Night Music: A Little Night Music is a musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by Hugh Wheeler. Inspired by the Ingmar Bergman film Smiles of a Summer Night, it involves the romantic lives of several couples. Its title is a literal English translation of the German name for Mozart's Serenade No. 13 for strings in G major, Eine kleine Nachtmusik. The musical includes the popular song "Send in the Clowns".
And did those feet in ancient time: "And did those feet in ancient time" is a short poem by William Blake from the preface to his epic Milton a Poem. The date on the title page of 1804 for Milton is probably when the plates were begun but the poem was printed c. 1808. Today it is best known as the hymn "Jerusalem", with music written by Sir Hubert Parry in 1916.
Anoa: Anoa, or Dwarf Buffalo, are a subgenus of Bubalus comprising two species native to Indonesia: the Mountain Anoa (Bubalus quarlesi) and the Lowland Anoa (Bubalus depressicornis). Both live in undisturbed forest, and are essentially miniature water buffalo, are similar in appearance to a deer, weighing 150-300 kg (330-660 lb). They live in deep rainforests. Both are found on the island of Sulawesi in Indonesia; the Mountain Anoa is also found on the nearby island of Buton.
Dual wield: In gaming, to dual wield is to hold a weapon in each hand. Dual wield may be called akimbo style, though it has little resemblance to the human position of that name. This most commonly refers to matched pairs of handguns but can refer to any other weapon that can be held in one hand such as machine pistols and even melee weapons, although this is more common in role-playing games, where it is usually termed dual wielding.
Affectional orientation: Affectional orientation (or romantic orientation) is used both alternatively and side-by-side with sexual orientation. It is based on the perspective that sexual attraction is but a single component of a larger dynamic. To holders of this view, one's orientation is defined by with whom one is predisposed to fall in love, whether or not one desires that person sexually.
Agner Krarup Erlang: Agner Krarup Erlang (January 1, 1878 - February 3, 1929) was a Danish mathematician, statistician and engineer, who invented the fields of traffic engineering and queueing theory. Erlang created the field of telephone networks analysis.
Anyone Can Whistle: Anyone Can Whistle is a musical with a book by Arthur Laurents and music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim. The story concerns a corrupt mayoress, an idealistic nurse, a man who may be a doctor, and various officials, patients and townspeople, all fighting to save a bankrupt town. This musical was Angela Lansbury's first stage musical role.
Alkali: In chemistry, an alkali is a basic, ionic salt of an alkali metal or alkaline earth metal element. Alkalis are best known for being bases that dissolve in water. Bases are compounds with a pH greater than 7. The adjective alkaline is commonly used in English as a synonym for base, especially for soluble bases. This broad use of the term is likely to have come about because alkalis were the first bases known to obey the Arrhenius definition of a base and are still among the more common bases.
Ariel Sharon: Ariel Sharon (born Ariel Scheinermann on 27 February 1928) is an Israeli general and politician, who served as Israels 11th Prime Minister. He is currently in a permanent vegetative state after suffering a stroke on 4 January 2006. A commander in the Israeli Army since its inception in 1948, Sharon participated in the 1948 War of Independence, 1956 Suez War, Six-Day War of 1967, and the Yom-Kippur War of 1973.
Alcopop: Alcopop is a term describing certain flavored alcoholic beverages, including: malt beverages to which various fruit juices or other flavorings have been added, beverages containing wine to which ingredients such as fruit juice or other flavorings have been added (wine coolers), or beverages containing distilled alcohol and added ingredients such as fruit juices or other flavorings.
Ain't I a Woman book: Ain't I a Woman?: Black women and feminism is a 1981 book by bell hooks titled after Sojourner Truth's "Ain't I a Woman?" speech, ISBN 0-89608-129-X. hooks examines the effect of racism and sexism on black women, the civil rights movement, and feminist movements from suffrage to the seventies. She argues that the convergence of sexism and racism during slavery contributed to black women having the lowest status and worst conditions of any group in American society.
AMOS programming language: AMOS BASIC is a dialect of the BASIC programming language implemented on the Amiga computer. AMOS BASIC was published by Europress Software and originally written by Franis Lionet with Constantin Sotiropoulos.
Arcadia 2001: The Arcadia 2001 is a second-generation 8-bit console released by Emerson Radio Corp. The game library was composed of 51 unique games and about 10 variations. The graphic quality is similar to that of the Intellivision and the Odyssey. The Arcadia was not named after the company of the same name. Arcadia Corporation, manufacturer of the 2600 supercharger, was sued by Emerson for trademark infringement. Arcadia Corporation then changed its name to Starpath. .
Convex uniform honeycomb: In geometry, a convex uniform honeycomb is a uniform space-filling tessellation in three-dimensional Euclidean space with non-overlapping convex uniform polyhedral cells. Twenty-eight such honeycombs exist: the familiar cubic honeycomb and 7 truncations thereof; the alternated cubic honeycomb and 4 truncations thereof; 10 prismatic forms based on the uniform plane tilings (11 if including the cubic honeycomb); 5 modifications of some of the above by elongation and/or gyration.
Audio CD: Audio CD is an umbrella term that refers to many standards of means of playing back audio on a CD. It may specifically refer to:
Assassination: An assassination is the targeted killing of a public figure. Assassinations may be prompted by religious, ideological, political, or military reasons. Additionally, assassins may be motivated by financial gain, revenge, or personal public recognition. Assassination may also refer to the government-sanctioned killing of opponents or to targeted attacks on high-profile enemy combatants.
Abstraction: Abstraction is the process or result of generalization by reducing the information content of a concept or an observable phenomenon, typically to retain only information which is relevant for a particular purpose. For example, abstracting a leather soccer ball to the more general idea of a ball retains only the information on general ball attributes and behaviour, eliminating the characteristics of that particular ball.
Alcoholism: Alcoholism has multiple and conflicting definitions. In common and historic usage, alcoholism is any condition that results in the continued consumption of alcoholic beverages, despite health problems and negative social consequences. Modern medical definitions describe alcoholism as a disease and addiction which results in a persistent use of alcohol despite negative consequences.
Abelian group: An abelian group, also called a commutative group, is a group in which the result of applying the group operation to two group elements does not depend on their order (the axiom of commutativity). Abelian groups generalize the arithmetic of addition of integers. They are named after Niels Henrik Abel.
Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty: The Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty (ABM Treaty or ABMT) was a treaty between the United States of America and the Soviet Union on the limitation of the anti-ballistic missile (ABM) systems used in defending areas against missile-delivered nuclear weapons. Signed in 1972, it was in force for the next thirty years until the US unilaterally withdrew from it in December 2001.
Abracadabra: Abracadabra is an incantation used as a magic word in conjuring tricks that historically was believed to have healing powers when inscribed on an amulet.
Acts of Union 1707: The Acts of Union were a pair of Parliamentary Acts passed in 1707 by the Parliament of Scotland and the Parliament of England to put into effect the terms of the Treaty of Union that had been agreed on 22 July 1706, following negotiation between commissioners representing the parliaments of the two countries.
Amphibian disambiguation: An amphibian is a cold-blooded vertebrate. Amphibian may also refer to: Amphibian (comics), a superhero Amphibious vehicle Amphibian aircraft Vostok Amphibia, one of the Vostok watches Amphibian (song), a song by Bjk
Amputation: Amputation is the removal of a body extremity by trauma or surgery. As a surgical measure, it is used to control pain or a disease process in the affected limb, such as malignancy or gangrene. In some cases, it is carried out on individuals as a preventative surgery for such problems. A special case is the congenital amputation, a congenital disorder, where foetal limbs have been cut off by constrictive bands.
Admiralty: The Admiralty was formerly the authority in the Kingdom of England, and later in the United Kingdom, responsible for the command of the Royal Navy. Originally exercised by a single person, the office of Lord High Admiral was from the 18th century onward almost invariably put "in commission", and was exercised by a Board of Admiralty.
Anemometer: An anemometer is a device for measuring the wind speed, and is one instrument used in a weather station. The term is derived from the Greek word anemos, meaning wind. The first known description of an anemometer was given by Leon Battista Alberti in around 1450.
Arthur Laurents: Arthur Laurents (born July 14, 1918) is an award-winning American playwright, librettist, stage director, and screenwriter. His credits include the stage musicals West Side Story and ' and the film The Way We Were.
Archaeopteryx: Archaeopteryx, sometimes referred to by its German name Urvogel ("original bird" or "first bird"), is the earliest and most primitive bird known. The name derives from the Ancient Greek (archaios) meaning "ancient", and (pteryx), meaning "feather" or "wing".
A.D. Police: AD Police is a manga series by Tony Takezaki set in the Bubblegum Crisis universe. The story focuses on the members of the AD Police, an advanced group of officers tasked with stopping terrorist activities and Boomer crimes in the city of Megatokyo. The AD Police has been featured in the AD Police Files original video animation and the ' television series.
Adrian Lamo: Adrian Lamo is a former grey hat hacker and is a journalist, principally known for breaking into a series of high-security computer networks, and his subsequent arrest. Best known among these were his intrusions into The New York Times and Microsoft. He is also known for identifying security flaws in computer networks of Fortune 500 companies and then notifying them of any flaws he found.
Apeiron cosmology: Apeiron is a Greek word meaning unlimited, infinite or indefinite from the Greek a (without) and peiras (end or limit in Ionic dialect).
Alan Jay Lerner: Alan Jay Lerner (August 31, 1918 - June 14, 1986) was an American lyricist and librettist. In collaboration with Frederick Loewe, he created some of the world's most popular and enduring works of musical theatre for both the stage and on film. He won three Tony Awards and three Academy Awards, among other honors.
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States: Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States are the members of the Supreme Court of the United States other than the Chief Justice of the United States. The number of Associate Justices is determined by the United States Congress and is currently set at eight by the Judiciary Act of 1869. Associate Justices, like the Chief Justice, are nominated by the President of the United States and are confirmed by the United States Senate by majority vote.
Ann Druyan: Ann Druyan (born June 13, 1949) is an American author and media producer known for her involvement in many projects aiming to popularize and explain science. She is probably best-known as the last wife of the late Carl Sagan, and co-author of the ' series and book, along with Sagan and Steven Soter.
Al Capp: Alfred Gerald Caplin (September 28, 1909 - November 5, 1979), better known as Al Capp, was an American cartoonist and humorist best known for the satirical comic strip Li'l Abner. He also wrote the comic strips Abbie an' Slats and Long Sam. He won the National Cartoonists Society's Reuben Award in 1947 for Cartoonist of the Year, and their 1979 Elzie Segar Award (posthumously) for his "unique and outstanding contribution to the profession of cartooning."
Analcime: Analcime or analcite (from the Greek analkimos - "weak") is a white, grey, or colourless tectosilicate mineral. Analcime consists of hydrated sodium aluminium silicate in cubic crystalline form. Its chemical formula is NaAlSi2O62O. Minor amounts of potassium and calcium substitute for sodium. A silver-bearing synthetic variety also exists (Ag-analcite). Analcime is usually classified as a zeolite mineral, but structurally and chemically it is more similar to the feldspathoids.
 Abdu'l-Bah: Abdul-Bah ( &lrm) (23 May 1844 - 28 November 1921), born `Abb Effend, was the eldest son of Bah'u'll, the founder of the Bah' Faith. In 1892, `Abdu'l-Bah was appointed in his father's will to be his successor and head of the Bah' Faith. His journeys to the West, and his Tablets of the Divine Plan spread the Bah' message beyond its middle-eastern roots, and his Will and Testament laid the foundation for the current Bah' administrative order.
Ambrose of Alexandria: Ambrose of Alexandria (before 212 - c. 250) was a friend of the Christian theologian Origen. Ambrose was attracted by Origen's fame as a teacher, and visited the Catechetical School of Alexandria in 212. At first a gnostic Valentinian and Marcionist, Ambrose, through Origen's teaching, eventually rejected this theology and became Origen's constant companion, and was ordained deacon.
Alexey Pajitnov: Alexey Leonidovich Pajitnov ( , transliterated as Aleksei Leonidovich Pazhitnov, born 1956) is a computer engineer from Russia now living in the United States, who developed the popular game Tetris while working for the Computing Center of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, a Soviet government-founded R&D center.
Arthur Jensen: Arthur Robert Jensen (born August 24, 1923) is a Professor Emeritus of educational psychology at the University of California, Berkeley. Jensen is known for his work in psychometrics and differential psychology, which is concerned with how and why individuals differ behaviorally from one another.
Anubis: Anubis is the Greek name for a jackal-headed god associated with mummification and the afterlife in Egyptian mythology. In the ancient Egyptian language, Anubis is known as Inpu, (variously spelled Anupu, Ienpw etc.). The oldest known mention of Anubis is in the Old Kingdom pyramid texts, where he is associated with the burial of the Pharaoh. At this time, Anubis was the most important god of the Dead but he was replaced during the Middle Kingdom by Osiris.
Autonomous building: An autonomous building is a building designed to be operated independently from infrastructural support services such as the electric power grid, gas grid, municipal water systems, sewage treatment systems, storm drains, communication services, and in some cases, public roads. Advocates of autonomous building describe advantages that include reduced environmental impacts, increased security, and lower costs of ownership.
A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum: A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum is a musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and a book by Burt Shevelove and Larry Gelbart. Inspired by the farces of the ancient Roman playwright Plautus (251-183 BC), specifically Pseudolus, Miles Gloriosus and Mostellaria, it tells the bawdy story of a slave named Pseudolus and his attempts to win his freedom by helping his young master woo the girl next door.
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act: The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, commonly abbreviated ANCSA, was signed into law by President Richard M. Nixon on December 18, 1971, the largest land claims settlement in United States history. ANCSA was intended to resolve the long-standing issues surrounding aboriginal land claims in Alaska, as well as to stimulate economic development throughout Alaska.
Adoptionism: Adoptionism, sometimes called dynamic monarchianism, is a minority Christian belief that Jesus was born of Joseph and Mary in the normal way. Jesus became divine, ie (adopted as God's son), at his baptism. By Jewish-Christian accounts, Jesus was chosen because of his sinless devotion to the will of God. Early Jewish Christians understood Jesus as Messiah and Son of God in terms of the anointing at his baptism which was in line with the radical monotheism of Judaism.
Aleut: The Aleuts (self-denomination from Aleut language allthuh 'community'; older or regional self-denomination Unangax, Unangan or Unanga 'coastal people') are the indigenous people of the Aleutian Islands of Alaska, United States and Kamchatka Krai, Russia. The name Aleut was given to the Unangan by Russian fur traders in the mid 18th century.
Apollinarism: Apollinarism or Apollinarianism was a view proposed by Apollinaris of Laodicea that Jesus could not have had a human mind; rather, that Jesus Christ had a human body and lower soul (the seat of the emotions) but a divine mind. The Trinity had been recognized at the Council of Nicea in 325, but debate about exactly what it meant continued. A rival to the more common belief that Jesus Christ had two natures was monophysitism ("one nature"), the doctrine that Christ had only one nature.
Acid base reaction: An acid-base reaction is a chemical reaction that occurs between an acid and a base. Several concepts that provide alternative definitions for the reaction mechanisms involved and their application in solving related problems exist. Despite several differences in definitions, their importance becomes apparent as different methods of analysis when applied to acid-base reactions for gaseous or liquid species, or when acid or base character may be somewhat less apparent.
Abu al-Faraj al-Isfahani: `Ali ibn al-Husayn ul-Isbahn, also known as Abu-l-Faraj or, in the West, as Abulfaraj (897-967) was an Iranian scholar of Arab-Quraysh origin who is noted for collecting and preserving ancient Arabic lyrics and poems in his major work, the Kitb al-Aghn.
Alcoba a Portugal: Alcoba is a city in Alcoba Municipality in Leiria District and subregion Oeste, in Portugal, formerly included in the province of Estremadura. The city grew along the valleys of the rivers Alcoa and Ba, from which it derives its name. The municipality has a total population of 55,269 inhabitants and a total area of 408.1 km. The city itself has a population of 15,800 inhabitants.
Amphisbaena: Amphisbaena, Amphisbaina, Amphisbene, Amphisboena, Amphisbona, Amphista, Amphivena, or Anphivena (the last two being feminine), a Greek word, from amphis, meaning "both ways", and bainein, meaning "to go", also called the Mother of Ants, is a mythological, ant-eating serpent with a head at each end. According to Greek mythology, the amphisbaena was spawned from the blood that dripped from the Gorgon Medusa's head as Perseus flew over the Libyan Desert with it in his hand.
Amyl nitrite: Amyl nitrite is the chemical compound with the formula C5H11ONO. A variety of isomers are known, but they all feature an amyl group attached to the nitrito functional group. The alkyl group is unreactive and the chemical and biological properties are mainly due to the nitrite group. Like other alkyl nitrites, amyl nitrite is bioactive in mammals, being a vasodilator, which is the basis of its use as a prescription medicine.
Autumn: Autumn (also known as fall in American English) is one of the four temperate seasons. Autumn marks the transition from summer into winter, usually in March or September when the arrival of night becomes noticeably earlier. The equinoxes might be expected to be in the middle of their seasons, but temperature lag (caused by the thermal latency of the ground and sea) means that seasons appear later than dates calculated from a purely astronomical perspective.
Alpha helix: A common motif in the secondary structure of proteins, the alpha helix (-helix) is a right-handed coiled or spiral conformation, in which every backbone N-H group donates a hydrogen bond to the backbone C=O group of the amino acid four residues earlier (hydrogen bonding). This secondary structure is also sometimes called a classic Pauling-Corey-Branson alpha helix (see below).
Alameda California: Alameda is a city in Alameda County, California, United States. It is located on a small island of the same name next to Oakland in the San Francisco Bay. Bay Farm Island is also part of the city, and is adjacent and connected to the Oakland International Airport. The city has a small town feeling with its Victorian homes and tree-lined neighborhoods. At the 2000 census, the city had a total population of 72,259.
Accrington: Accrington is a town in Lancashire, within the borough of Hyndburn. It lies about 6 miles (10 km) west of Burnley, 20 miles (32 km) north of Manchester city centre and 8 miles (13 km) north of the border of Greater Manchester, and is situated on the mostly culverted River Hyndburn. The town has a population of 35,203 according to the 2001 census and the urban area has a population of over 70,000. The town is a former centre of the cotton and textile machinery industries.
Athlon: Athlon is the brand name applied to a series of different x86 processors designed and manufactured by AMD. The original Athlon (now called Athlon Classic) was the first seventh-generation x86 processor and, in a first, retained the initial performance lead it had over Intel's competing processors for a significant period of time, being the first desktop processor to reach speeds of 1 GHz.
Amyl alcohol: An amyl alcohol is any of 8 alcohols with the formula C5H11O . A mixture of amyl alcohols (also called amyl alcohol) can be obtained from fusel alcohol. Amyl alcohol is used as a solvent and in esterfication for example in the production of amyl acetate. Amyl alcohol as a distinct chemical compound refers to 1-pentanol.
Islamic conquest of Afghanistan: The Islamic conquest of Afghanistan (642-1187) began after the Islamic conquest of Persia was completed, when Arab Muslims defeated the Sassanid Empire at the battles of Walaja, al-Qdisiyyah and Nahavand. The Arabs then began to move towards the lands east of Persia and in 642 captured the city, Herat. The complete conversion of Afghanistan to Islam was during the period of the Ghaznavids, in or about the 11th century.
Armageddon: Armageddon is the site of an epic battle associated with the end time prophecies of the Abrahamic religions. According to some premillennial Christian interpretations, the Messiah, the "Lamb", will return to earth and defeat the Antichrist, the "Beast", in the battle of Armageddon. Then Satan will be put into the bottomless pit or abyss for 1,000 years, known as the Millennial age. After being released from the abyss, Satan will gather Gog and Magog from the four corners of the earth.
Amu Darya: The Amu Darya, also called Oxus and Amu River, is a major river in Central Asia. It is formed by the junction of the Vakhsh and Panj rivers. In ancient times, the river was regarded as the boundary between Irn and Trn.
Arcturus: Arcturus ( Boo / Bois / Alpha Bois) is the brightest star in the constellation Boes. With a visual magnitude of 0.05, it is also the third brightest star in the night sky, after Sirius and Canopus. It is, however, fainter than the combined light of the two main components of Alpha Centauri, which are too close together for the eye to resolve as separate sources of light, making Arcturus appear to be the fourth brightest.
Durrani Empire: The Durrani Empire was a monarchy state centered in modern Afghanistan and included northeastern Iran, the modern state of Pakistan as well as the Punjab region of India. It was established at Kandahar in 1747 by an Afghan military commander, Ahmad Shah Durrani. After the death of Ahmad Shah in about 1773, the Emirship was passed onto his children followed by grandchildren.
Aym q: Aymq, also transliterated as Aimak or Aimaq, are a collection of Persian-speaking nomadic or semi-nomadic tribes of mixed Mongolian and Iranian stock. They are found throughout the north and northwest highlands of Afghanistan, immediately to the north of Herat, and in the Khorasan Province of Iran. They speak a number of subdialects of the Aimaq dialect of Persian. Aimaks are closely related to Hazara and Tajiks in varying degrees. In the Afghan census, Aimaks are classified as Tajiks.
Amnon: According to the Bible, Amnon was the oldest son of David, King of Israel, with his wife, Ahinoam, who is described as "the Jezreelitess".
Albert Brooks: Albert Brooks (born July 22, 1947) is an American actor, voice actor, writer, comedian and director. He received an Academy Award nomination in 1987 for his role in Broadcast News. His voice acting credits include as Marlin, the clownfish father in Finding Nemo and as a recurring guest voice actor for the animated television series The Simpsons.
Androphagi: Androphagi was an ancient nation of cannibals north of Scythia, probably in the forests between the upper waters of the Dnepr and Don. These people may have assisted the Scythians when King Darius the Great let a Persian invasion into what is now Southern Russia to punish the Scythians for their raids into the Persian Empire.
Antares: Antares ( Scorpii / Alpha Scorpii) is a red supergiant star in the Milky Way galaxy and the sixteenth brightest star in the nighttime sky (sometimes listed as fifteenth brightest, if the two brighter components of the Capella quadruple star system are counted as one star). Along with Aldebaran, Spica, and Regulus it is one of the four brightest stars near the ecliptic. Antares is a slow variable star with an average magnitude of +1.09.
Aldebaran: Aldebaran ( Tau, Tauri, Alpha Tauri) is an orange giant star located about 65 light years away in the zodiac constellation of Taurus. With an average apparent magnitude of 0.87 it is the brightest star in the constellation and is one of the brightest stars in the nighttime sky. The name Aldebaran is Arabic (al-dabarn) and translates literally as "the follower", presumably because this bright star appears to follow the Pleiades, or Seven Sisters star cluster in the night sky.
Altair: Altair (Alpha Aquilae / Alpha Aql / Aquilae / Aql / Atair) is the brightest star in the constellation Aquila and the twelfth brightest star in the night sky. It is an A-type main sequence star with an apparent visual magnitude of 0.77 and is one of the vertices of the Summer Triangle; the other two are Deneb and Vega. Altair rotates rapidly, with a velocity at the equator of approximately 286 km/s.
Australian Broadcasting Corporation: The Australian Broadcasting Corporation, commonly referred to as "the ABC" (and informally as "Aunty"), is Australia's national public broadcaster. With a total budget of AUD$1.13 Billion annually, the corporation provides television, radio, online and mobile services throughout metropolitan and regional Australia, as well as overseas through the Australia Network and Radio Australia.
Alexandria Louisiana: Alexandria is a city in and the parish seat of Rapides Parish, Louisiana, United States. It lies on the south bank of the Red River in almost the exact geographic center of the state. It is the principal city of the Alexandria metropolitan area (population 147,000) which encompasses all of Rapides and Grant parishes. In mid 2008 the population was 50,236 according to an official estimate by Louisiana Tech's College of Business Population Estimates Program. Its neighboring city is Pineville.
Alexandria Indiana: Alexandria is a city in Monroe Township, Madison County, Indiana, United States. It is about 46 miles (74 km) northeast of Indianapolis. It is part of the Anderson, Indiana Metropolitan Statistical Area. Its population, as of 2000 is 6,260, according to the United States Census. Alexandria is served by the Norfolk & Southern Railway with a connector which allows rail traffic to flow smoothly between lines servicing east-west and north-south destinations.
Alexandria Troas: Alexandria Troas ("Alexandria of the Troad", mod. Eski Stambul) is an ancient Greek city situated on the Aegean Sea near the northern tip of Turkey's western coast, a little south of Tenedos. It is located in the modern Turkish province of nakkale. According to the Catholic Encyclopedia, this site was first called Sigia; perhaps about 310 BC Antigonus refounded the city as Antigonia Troas. In its early years, Troas was a port city that supplied the Dorians with resources and trade.
Angela Vincent: Angela Vincent (born 1942) is a professor at Somerville College of Oxford University. She is the head of a research group, which is located in the Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine and working on a wide range of biological disciplines encompassing molecular biology, biochemistry, cellular immunology and intracellular neurophysiology. The group's research is focused on autoimmune and genetic disorders of the neuromuscular junction and peripheral motor nerves.
Alexandria West Dunbartonshire: Alexandria (Cathair Alastair in Gaelic) is a town in West Dunbartonshire, Scotland. The town is situated on the River Leven, four miles (6 km) north-west of Dumbarton. As of 2001, the population of the town is 13,444. It is the largest town in the Vale of Leven, the others being Balloch, Renton, Jamestown and Bonhill; their combined population is over 20,000. The town's traditional industry, most importantly cotton manufacturing, bleaching and printing, have been phased out.
Arithmetic-geometric mean: In mathematics, the arithmetic-geometric mean (AGM) of two positive real numbers x and y is defined as follows: First compute the arithmetic mean of x and y and call it a1. Next compute the geometric mean of x and y and call it g1; this is the square root of the product xy: Then iterate this operation with a1 taking the place of x and g1 taking the place of y.
Alexandria Romania: Alexandria is the capital city of the Teleorman County, Romania. It is located south-west of Bucharest, towards the Bulgarian border. The city is situated on the Vedea River. The city has 58,651 inhabitants.
Akira Toriyama: Akira Toriyama (born on April 5, 1955, in Kiyosu, Aichi, Japan) is a widely known and acclaimed Japanese manga artist known mostly for his creation of Dragon Ball in 1984. It is difficult to pinpoint the source of Toriyama's artwork inspiration. He admires Osamu Tezuka's Astro Boy and was impressed by Walt Disney's One Hundred and One Dalmatians, which he remembers for the great art. Jackie Chan's early movies had a noticeable influence on Toriyama's stories.
Epsilon Ursae Majoris: Epsilon Ursae Majoris ( UMa / Ursae Majoris) is the brightest star in the constellation Ursa Major (despite its Bayer designation being merely "epsilon"), and at magnitude 1.76 is the thirty-first brightest star in the sky. It has the traditional name Alioth (from the Arabic word alyat- fat tail of a sheep). It is known as (the Fifth Star of the Northern Dipper) or (the Star of Jade Sighting-tube) in Chinese.
Amiga 500: The Amiga 500, also known as the A500 (or its code name 'Rock Lobster'), was the first low-end Commodore Amiga 16/32-bit multimedia home/personal computer. It was announced at the winter Consumer Electronics Show in January 1987, at the same time as the high-end Amiga 2000, and competed directly against the Atari 520ST. Before A500 was shipped Commodore suggested that the list price of the A500 was 595.95 USD without a monitor.
Alexandria: Alexandria, with a population of 4.1 million, is the second-largest city in Egypt, and is the country's largest seaport, serving about 80% of Egypt's imports and exports. Alexandria is also an important tourist resort. Alexandria extends about 32 km (20 mi) along the coast of the Mediterranean Sea in north-central Egypt. It is home to the Bibliotheca Alexandrina, It is an important industrial centre because of its natural gas and oil pipelines from Suez, another city in Egypt.
Andrew S. Tanenbaum: Andrew Stuart "Andy" Tanenbaum (sometimes referred to by the handle ast) (born March 16, 1944) is a professor of computer science at the Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam in the Netherlands. He is best known as the author of MINIX, a free Unix-like operating system for teaching purposes, and for his computer science textbooks, regarded as standard texts in the field. He regards his teaching job as his most important work.
Asymptote: In analytic geometry, an asymptote of a curve is a line such that the distance between the curve and the line approaches zero as they tend to infinity. Some sources include the requirement that the curve may not cross the line infinitely often, but this is unusual for modern authors. In some contexts, such as algebraic geometry, an asymptote is defined as line which is tangent to a curve at infinity.
Amiga 500 Plus: The Commodore Amiga 500 Plus (often A500 Plus or simply A500+) is an enhanced version of the original Amiga 500 computer. It was notable for introducing new versions of Kickstart and Workbench, and for some minor improvements in the custom chips, known as the Enhanced Chip Set (or ECS).
Amiga 1000: The A1000, or Commodore Amiga 1000, was Commodore's initial Amiga personal computer, introduced on July 24, 1985 at the Lincoln Center in New York City. Machines began shipping in September with a base configuration of 256 KB of RAM at the retail price of 1295 USD. A 13-inch (330 mm) analog RGB monitor was available for around 300 USD bringing the price of a complete Amiga system to 1595 USD. Before the release of the Amiga 500 and A2000 models in 1987, the A1000 was simply called Amiga.
Arianespace: Arianespace SA is a French company founded in 1980 as the world's first commercial space transportation company. It undertakes the production, operation, and marketing of the Ariane 5 rocket launcher as part of the Ariane programme. As of 2004, Arianespace held more than 50 percent of the world market for boosting satellites to geostationary transfer orbit (GTO).
Ariane 5: Ariane 5 is an expendable launch system used to deliver payloads into geostationary transfer orbit or low Earth orbit. Ariane 5 rockets are manufactured under the authority of the European Space Agency (ESA) and the Centre National d'Etudes Spatiales (CNES). EADS Astrium Space Transportation (Astrium) is the prime contractor for the vehicles, leading a consortium of sub-contractors. Ariane 5 is operated and marketed by Arianespace as part of the Ariane programme.
Accumulator computing: In a computer's central processing unit, an accumulator is a register in which intermediate arithmetic and logic results are stored. Without a register like an accumulator, it would be necessary to write the result of each calculation (addition, multiplication, shift, etc. ) to main memory, perhaps only to be read right back again for use in the next operation.
Andersonville Georgia: Andersonville is a city in Sumter County, Georgia, United States. The population was 331 at the 2000 census (174 in 1910). It is in the southwest part of the state, about 60 miles southwest of Macon, Georgia on the Central of Georgia railroad. During the American Civil War, it was the site of a prisoner-of-war camp which is now Andersonville National Historic Site. Andersonville is part of the Americus Micropolitan Statistical Area.
Arithmetic: Arithmetic or arithmetics (from the Greek word = number) is the oldest and most elementary branch of mathematics, used by almost everyone, for tasks ranging from simple day-to-day counting to advanced science and business calculations. It involves the study of quantity, especially as the result of combining numbers.
Abu Zubaydah: Abu Zubaydah is currently in U.S. custody in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, as a detainee in the war on Terror.
Andersonville: Andersonville may refer to: Andersonville National Historic Site, Confederate POW prison camp holding Union POWs Andersonville, Georgia, the site of the American Civil War POW camp Andersonville (novel), Pulitzer Prize winning novel by MacKinlay Kantor in 1956 The Andersonville Trial, Broadway play and TV account of the trial of Henry Wirz, POW camp commander Andersonville (film), story based on a POW camp prisoner's diary other places Andersonville, Chicago, a neighborhood in the U.S.
Agra Canal: The Agra Canal is an important Indian irrigation work which starts from Okhla in Delhi. The Agra canal originates from Okhla barrage, downstream of Nizamuddin bridge. It opened in 1874. In the beginning, it was available for navigation, in Delhi, erstwhile Gurgaon, Mathura and Agra Districts, and Bharatpur State. Later, navigation was stopped in 1904 and the canal has since then, been exclusively used for irrigation purposes only.
Ammonius Grammaticus: Ammonius Grammaticus is the supposed author of a treatise entitled Peri homon kai diaphn len ( , On the Differences of Synonymous Expressions), of whom nothing is known. He was formerly identified with an Egyptian priest who, after the destruction of the pagan temple at Alexandria (389), fled to Constantinople, where he became the tutor of the ecclesiastical historian Socrates.
Afterglow: An afterglow is a broad high arch of whitish or rosy light appearing in the sky due to very fine particles of dust suspended in the high regions of the atmosphere. An afterglow may appear above the highest clouds in the hour of deepening twilight, or reflected from the high snowfields in mountain regions long after sunset. The particles produce a scattering effect upon the component parts of white light.
Algebraic closure: In mathematics, particularly abstract algebra, an algebraic closure of a field K is an algebraic extension of K that is algebraically closed. It is one of many closures in mathematics. Using Zorn's lemma, it can be shown that every field has an algebraic closure, and that the algebraic closure of a field K is unique up to an isomorphism that fixes every member of K. Because of this essential uniqueness, we often speak of the algebraic closure of K, rather than an algebraic closure of K.
Amakusa: Amakusa () is a series of islands belonging to Japan, the biggest of which, Shimoshima Island, is 26 miles long and 13 in extreme width, situated about 3220'N, 130, on the west of Kumamoto Prefecture (formerly the province of Higo on the island of Kysh), from which it is separated by the Yatsushiro Sea. It is served by Amakusa Airfield.
Advanced power management: Advanced power management (APM) is an API developed by Intel and Microsoft and released in 1992 which enables an operating system running an IBM-compatible personal computer to work with the BIOS (part of the computer's firmware) to achieve power management. Revision 1.2 was the last version of the APM specification, released in 1996. ACPI is intended as the successor to APM. Microsoft dropped support for APM in Windows Vista.
Aspiration phonetics: In phonetics, aspiration is the strong burst of air that accompanies either the release or, in the case of preaspiration, the closure of some obstruents. To feel or see the difference between aspirated and unaspirated sounds, one can put a hand or a lit candle in front of one's mouth, and say tore and then store . One should either feel a puff of air or see a flicker of the candle flame with tore that one does not get with store.
Adolphe Sax: Antoine-Joseph "Adolphe" Sax (November 6, 1814 - February 4, 1894) was a Belgian musical instrument designer and musician who played the flute and clarinet, and is best known for having invented the saxophone.
Arteriovenous malformation: Arteriovenous malformation or AVM is an abnormal connection between veins and arteries, usually congenital. This pathology is widely known because of its occurrence in the central nervous system, but can appear in any location. The genetic transmission patterns of AVM, if any, are unknown. AVM is not generally thought to be an inherited disorder, unless in the context of a specific hereditary syndrome.
A Doll's House: A Doll's House is an 1879 play by Norwegian playwright Henrik Ibsen. Written one year after The Pillars of Society, the play was the first of Ibsen's to create a sensation and is now perhaps his most famous play, and required reading in many secondary schools and universities. The play was controversial when first published, as it is sharply critical of 19th century marriage norms.
AIM-7 Sparrow: The AIM-7 Sparrow is an American-made, medium-range semi-active radar homing air-to-air missile operated by the United States Air Force, United States Navy and United States Marine Corps, as well as various allied air forces and navies. Sparrow and its derivatives were the West's principal beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missile from the late 1950s until the 1990s. It remains in service, although it is being phased out in aviation applications in favor of the more advanced AIM-120 AMRAAM.
Atlanta: Atlanta is the capital and most populous city in the U.S. state of Georgia, as well as the urban core of one of the fastest-growing metropolitan areas in the United States. With a 2008 estimated population of 537,958, Atlanta is the thirty-third largest city in the United States, and the 28-county Atlanta Metropolitan Area is the eighth largest such region in the United States, and the second largest in the Southeastern U.S. , behind Miami-Fort Lauderdale, with more than 5,376,285 residents.
AIM-120 AMRAAM: The AIM-120 Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile, or AMRAAM (pronounced am-ram), is a modern Beyond Visual Range (BVR) air-to-air missile (AAM) capable of all weather day and night performance. It is also commonly known as the Slammer in USAF service. When an AMRAAM missile is being launched, NATO pilots use the brevity code Fox Three.
AGM-88 HARM: The AGM-88 High-speed Anti-Radiation Missile (HARM) is a tactical, air-to-surface missile designed to home in on electronic transmissions coming from surface-to-air radar systems. It was originally developed by Texas Instruments (TI) as a replacement for the AGM-45 Shrike and AGM-78 Standard ARM system. Production was later taken over by Raytheon Corporation (RAYCO) when they purchased TI's defense business.
Axiology: Axiology (from Greek, axi, "value, worth"; and, ') is the study of quality or value. It is often taken to include ethics and aesthetics - philosophical fields that depend crucially on notions of value - and sometimes it is held to lay the groundwork for these fields, and thus to be similar to value theory and meta-ethics. The term was first used in the early 20th century by Paul Lapie, in 1902, and E. von Hartmann, in 1908.
AIM-54 Phoenix: The AIM-54 Phoenix is a radar-guided, long-range air-to-air missile, carried in clusters of up to six missiles formerly on the U.S. Navy's and currently on the Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force's F-14 Tomcat interceptors/multi-role fighters: which is the only aircraft capable of carrying it. The AIM-54 was originally developed in the early 1960s for the canceled F-111B naval variant, and based on the Eagle project for the canceled F6D Missileer.
Alternative: Alternatives are objects or actions, where the choice of one excludes choosing the other. Alternative may also refer to:
Lockheed AC-130: The Lockheed AC-130 gunship is a heavily-armed ground-attack aircraft. The basic airframe is manufactured by Lockheed, and Boeing is responsible for the conversion into a gunship and for aircraft support. It is a variant of the C-130 Hercules transport plane. The AC-130A Gunship II superseded the AC-47 Gunship I in the Vietnam War. The gunship's sole user is the United States Air Force, which uses AC-130H Spectre and AC-130U Spooky variants.
Alternative algebra: In abstract algebra, an alternative algebra is an algebra in which multiplication need not be associative, only alternative. That is, one must have for all x and y in the algebra. Every associative algebra is obviously alternative, but so too are some strictly nonassociative algebras such as the octonions. The sedenions, on the other hand, are not alternative.
Arbitrage: In economics and finance, arbitrage is the practice of taking advantage of a price differential between two or more markets: striking a combination of matching deals that capitalize upon the imbalance, the profit being the difference between the market prices. When used by academics, an arbitrage is a transaction that involves no negative cash flow at any probabilistic or temporal state and a positive cash flow in at least one state; in simple terms, a risk-free profit.
AGM-65 Maverick: The AGM-65 Maverick is an air-to-ground tactical missile (AGM) designed for close air support. It is effective against a wide range of tactical targets, including armor, air defenses, ships, ground transportation, and fuel storage facilities. The AGM-65F used by the U.S. Navy has an infrared guidance system optimized for ship tracking and a larger penetrating warhead than the shaped charge warhead used by the U.S. Marine Corps and the U.S. Air Force (300 pounds / 140 kilograms vs.
ACF Fiorentina: ACF Fiorentina, commonly referred to as simply Fiorentina, is a professional Italian football club from Florence, Tuscany. Founded by a merger in 1926, Fiorentina have played at the top level of Italian football for the majority of their existence; only four clubs have played in more Serie A seasons. After climbing back up the Italian football system in the early 2000s, Fiorentina are currently competing in the Serie A.
Afrobeat: Afrobeat is a combination of Yoruba music, jazz, highlife, and funk rhythms, fused with percussion and vocal styles, popularized in Africa in the 1970s. Its main creator was the Nigerian multi-instrumentalist and bandleader Fela Kuti who used it to revolutionise musical structure as well as the political context in his native Nigeria. It was Kuti who coined the term "afrobeat" upon his return from a U.S. tour with his group Nigeria 70 (formerly Koola Lobitos).
Arithmetic function: In number theory, an arithmetic (or arithmetical) function is a real or complex valued function (n) defined on the set of natural numbers that "expresses some arithmetical property of n. " An example of an arithmetic function is the non-principal character (mod 4) defined by where is the Kronecker symbol. To emphasise that they are being thought of as functions rather than sequences, values of an arithmetic function are usually denoted by a(n) rather than an.
ANSI C: ANSI C is the standard published by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) for the C programming language. Software developers writing in C are encouraged to conform to the requirements in the document, as it encourages easily portable code.
Antinomy: Antinomy (Greek -, against, plus , law) literally means the mutual incompatibility, real or apparent, of two laws. It is a term used in logic and epistemology. The term acquired a special significance in the philosophy of Immanuel Kant, who used it to describe the equally rational but contradictory results of applying to the universe of pure thought the categories or criteria of reason proper to the universe of sensible perception or experience (phenomena).
Adin Steinsaltz: Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz or Adin Even Yisrael (born 1937) is most commonly known for his popular commentary and translation of both Talmuds into Hebrew, French, Russian and Spanish. Steinsaltz is a noted rabbi, scholar, philosopher, social critic and author world wide whose background also includes extensive scientific training. In 1988, Time magazine praised him as an "once-in-a-millennium scholar."
Ascending chain condition: The ascending chain condition (ACC) and descending chain condition (DCC) are finiteness properties satisfied by some algebraic structures, most importantly, ideals in certain commutative rings. These conditions played an important role in the development of the structure theory of commutative rings in the works of David Hilbert, Emmy Noether, and Emil Artin. The conditions themselves can be stated in an abstract form, so that they make sense for any partially ordered set.
Achduart: Achduart is a cluster of five houses too small to be termed a village. It is found a few miles southeast of Achiltibuie on the Coigach peninsula of northwestern Scotland, in Ross and Cromarty, Highland. It has accommodation facilities for tourists, who come for its proximity to the ocean as well as its seclusion and remoteness.
Alien and Sedition Acts: The Alien and Sedition Acts were four bills passed in 1798 by the Federalists in the 5th United States Congress during an undeclared naval war with France, later known as the Quasi-War. They were signed into law by President John Adams. Proponents claimed the acts were designed to protect the United States from alien citizens of enemy powers and to stop seditious attacks from weakening the government.
Alfred Edward Housman: Alfred Edward Housman (26 March 1859 - 30 April 1936), usually known as A. E. Housman, was an English classical scholar and poet, best known for his cycle of poems A Shropshire Lad. Lyrical and almost epigrammatic in form, the poems were mostly written before 1900.
Attribution of recent climate change: Attribution of recent climate change is the effort to scientifically ascertain mechanisms responsible for relatively recent changes observed in the Earth's climate. The effort has focused on changes observed during the period of instrumental temperature record, when records are most reliable; particularly on the last 50 years, when human activity has grown fastest and observations of the upper atmosphere have become available.
Adaptive expectations: In economics, adaptive expectations means that people form their expectations about what will happen in the future based on what has happened in the past. For example, if inflation has been higher than expected in the past, people would revise expectations for the future.
Atom probe: The atom probe is an atomic-resolution microscope used in materials science that was invented in 1967 by Erwin Wilhelm Mller, J. A. Panitz, and S. Brooks McLane.
Mexican tetra: The Mexican tetra or Blind Cave Fish (Astyanax mexicanus) is a freshwater fish of the characin family of order Characiformes. The type species of its genus, it is native to the Nearctic ecozone, originating in the lower Rio Grande and the Neueces and Pecos Rivers in Texas as well as the central and eastern parts of Mexico. Growing to a maximum overall length of 12 cm (4.7 in), the Mexican tetra is of typical characin shape, with unremarkable, drab coloration.
Al Capone: Alphonse Gabriel "Al" Capone (January 17, 1899 - January 25, 1947) was an American gangster who led a crime syndicate dedicated to smuggling and bootlegging of liquor and other illegal activities during the Prohibition Era of the 1920s and 1930s.
Amplifier: Generally, an amplifier or simply amp, is any device that changes, usually increases, the amplitude of a signal. The relationship of the input to the output of an amplifierusually expressed as a function of the input frequencyis called the transfer function of the amplifier, and the magnitude of the transfer function is termed the gain. In popular use, the term usually describes an electronic amplifier, in which the input "signal" is usually voltage or current.
Army of Darkness: Army of Darkness is a 1993 comedy horror/adventure film and the third installment in the Evil Dead series. Bruce Campbell stars as protagonist Ash Williams who finds himself in the Middle Ages where he must battle the undead in his quest to return home. The film was directed by Sam Raimi, and written by Raimi and his brother Ivan, and produced by Rob Tapert. Army of Darkness is not as violent or gory as the prior Evil Dead films, relying more on slapstick.
Achiltibuie: Achiltibuie is a long linear village in Ross and Cromarty, Highland, on the Coigach coast of northwestern Scotland, overlooking Loch Broom and the Summer Isles which lie to the west. Located 10 miles (16 km) northwest of Ullapool, Achiltibuie is home to the Hydroponicum, a garden where plants are grown using a hydroponic system, in water and without soil. It is the last stop on the road to Achduart.
RUR-5 ASROC: ASROC (for Anti-Submarine ROCket) is an all-weather, all sea-conditions anti-submarine missile system. Developed by the United States Navy in the 1950s, it was deployed in the 1960s, updated in the 1990s, and eventually installed on over 200 USN surface ships, specifically cruisers, destroyers, and frigates. The ASROC has been deployed on scores of warships of many other navies, including Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Republic of China, Greece, Pakistan and others.
Ahmed al-Nami: A former law student and muezzin, Ahmed bin Abdullah al-Nami ( , Amad bin Abdullh an-Nm; also transliterated Alnami or al-Nawi) (December 7, 1977 - September 11, 2001) was named by the FBI as one of the hijackers of United Airlines flight 93 as part of the September 11 attacks.
Ahmed al-Haznawi: Ahmed Ibrahim al-Haznawi (October 11, 1980 - September 11, 2001) was named by the FBI as one of the hijackers of United Airlines Flight 93 as part of the September 11 attacks.
Outback: The Outback is the remote arid areas of Australia, although the term colloquially can refer to any lands outside of the main urban areas. The term "the outback" is generally used to refer to locations that are comparatively more remote than those areas deemed "the bush".
Athanasius of Alexandria: Athanasius of Alexandria (c. 293 - 2 May 373), also given the titles Athanasius the Great, Pope Athanasius I of Alexandria, and Athanasius the Apostolic, was a Christian theologian, bishop of Alexandria, Church Father, and a noted Egyptian leader of the fourth century. He is best remembered for his role in the conflict with Arius and Arianism. At the First Council of Nicaea, Athanasius argued against Arius and his doctrine that Christ is of a distinct substance from the Father.
Atomic weight: Atomic weight is a dimensionless physical quantity, the ratio of the average mass of atoms of an element (from a given source) to 1/12 of the mass of an atom of carbon-12. The term is usually used, without further qualification, to refer to the standard atomic weights published at regular intervals by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) and which are intended to be applicable to normal laboratory materials.
Absolute Infinite: The Absolute Infinite is mathematician Georg Cantor's concept of an "infinity" that transcended the transfinite numbers. Cantor equated the Absolute Infinite with God. He held that the Absolute Infinite had various mathematical properties, including that every property of the Absolute Infinite is also held by some smaller object.
Acceptance testing: In engineering and its various subdisciplines, acceptance testing is black-box testing performed on a system (e.g. software, lots of manufactured mechanical parts, or batches of chemical products) prior to its delivery. It is also known as functional testing, black-box testing, release acceptance, QA testing, application testing, confidence testing, final testing, validation testing, or factory acceptance testing.
Archbishopric of Riga: The Archbishopric of Riga was an archbishopric in Medieval Livonia, a subject to the Holy See. It was established in 1186 as bishopric of Livonia, called Bishopric of Riga in 1202 and elevated to an Archbishopric in 1255.
Ansbach: Ansbach, or Anspach, originally Onolzbach, is a town in Bavaria, Germany. It is the capital of the administrative region of Middle Franconia. Ansbach is situated 25 miles southwest of Nuremberg and 90 miles north of Munich, on the Frkische Rezat, a tributary of the Main river. Population: 40,723 (2004). The city has five schools and the Ansbach University of Applied Sciences. It is connected by the autobahn A6 and the highways B13 and B14.
Albert Frederick Duke of Prussia: Albert Frederick was duke of Prussia from 1568 until his death. He was a son of Albert of Prussia and Anna Marie of Brunswick-Lneburg. He was the second and last Prussian duke of the Ansbach branch of the Hohenzollern family. He exhibited signs of mental disorder. In early 1578, the regency was taken over by his cousin, George Frederick of Brandenburg-Kulmbach (1539-1603).
National Alliance Italy: National Alliance (Alleanza Nazionale, AN) was a conservative political party in Italy. Gianfranco Fini was the leader of the party since its foundation in 1995, however he stepped down in 2008 after being elected to the nominally non-partisan post of President of the Italian Chamber of Deputies and was succeeded by Ignazio La Russa, who managed to merge the party into The People of Freedom (PdL). This finally happened in 2009.
Arno: The Arno is a river in the Tuscany region of Italy. It is the most important river of central Italy after the Tiber.
Aveiro Portugal: Aveiro is a city in Aveiro Municipality in Portugal, with a total area of 199.9 km, a total population of 73,559 inhabitants, and 59,860 electors (2006). It is the second most populous city in the Centro Region of Portugal, after Coimbra. However, the city of Aveiro together with neighbouring lhavo, make one conurbation which has a population of 113,908 inhabitants, making it one of the most important by population density in the Centro Region.
Azores: The Azores is a Portuguese archipelago in the Atlantic Ocean, about 1,500 km (930 mi) from Lisbon and about 3,900 km (2,400 mi) from the east coast of North America. The Monchique Islet on Flores Island, located at 31 16' 24" W is regarded as the westernmost point in Europe, even though from a geological standpoint the two westernmost Azorean islands actually lie on the North American plate. The current Azores' main industries are tourism, cattle raising for milk and meat, and fishing.
Amblypoda: Amblypoda is a taxonomic hypothesis uniting a group of extinct, herbivorous mammals. They were considered a suborder of the primitive ungulate mammals and have since been shown to represent a polyphyletic group.
Anthony the Great: Anthony the Great (c 251-356),, also known as Saint Anthony, Anthony the Abbot, Anthony of Egypt, Anthony of the Desert, Anthony the Anchorite, Abba Antonius ( ), and Father of All Monks, was a Christian saint from Egypt, a prominent leader among the Desert Fathers. He is celebrated in many churches on his feast days: 17 January in the Eastern Orthodox Church and Western churches; and Tobi 22, (January 30) in the Coptic Orthodox Church and the Coptic Catholic Church.
Amblygonite: Amblygonite is a fluorophosphate mineral, (Li,Na)AlPO4(F,OH), composed of lithium, sodium, aluminium, phosphate, fluoride and hydroxide. The mineral occurs in pegmatite deposits and is easily mistaken for albite and other feldspars. Its density, cleavage and flame test for lithium are diagnostic. Amblygonite forms a series with montebrasite, the low fluorine endmember. Geologic occurrence is in granite pegmatites, high-temperature tin veins, and greisens.
Amygdalin: Amygdalin, C20H27NO11, is a glycoside initially isolated from the seeds of the tree Prunus dulcis, also known as bitter almonds, by Pierre-Jean Robiquet and A. F. Boutron-Charlard in 1803, and subsequently investigated by Liebig and Wler in 1830, and others. Several other related species in the genus of Prunus, including apricot and black cherry, also contain amygdalin. It was promoted as a cancer cure by Ernst T. Krebs under the name "Vitamin B17", but studies have found it to be ineffective.
Running amok: Running amok, sometimes referred to as simply amok (also spelled amuck or amuk), is derived from the Malay/Indonesian/Tagalog word amuk, meaning "mad with uncontrollable rage". The verb form is mengamuk, or in Tagalog past tense nag-amok, with nag-aamok as present tense. The word was used by the British to describe to run-a-muck, or murder indiscriminately.
Apostles' Creed: The Apostles' Creed, sometimes titled Symbol of the Apostles, is an early statement of Christian belief, a creed or "symbol". It is widely used by a number of Christian denominations for both liturgical and catechetical purposes, most visibly by liturgical Churches of Western tradition, including the Latin Rite of the Catholic Church, Lutheranism, the Anglican Communion, and Western Orthodoxy. It is also used by Presbyterians, Methodists, and Congregationalists.
Amicable number: Amicable numbers are two different numbers so related that the sum of the proper divisors of one of the numbers is equal to the other. (A proper divisor of a number is a positive integer divisor other than the number itself. For example, the proper divisors of 6 are 1, 2, and 3. ) A pair of amicable numbers constitutes an aliquot sequence of period 2.
Acid rain: Acid rain is rain or any other form of precipitation that is unusually acidic, i.e. elevated levels of hydrogen ions. It can have harmful effects on plants, aquatic animals, and infrastructure through the process of wet deposition. Acid rain is caused by emissions of compounds of ammonium, carbon, nitrogen, and sulfur which react with the water molecules in the atmosphere to produce acids.
Agar: Agar or agar agar is a gelatinous substance derived from seaweed. Historically and in a modern context, it is chiefly used as an ingredient in desserts throughout Japan, but in the past century has found extensive use as a solid substrate to contain culture medium for microbiological work. The gelling agent is an unbranched polysaccharide obtained from the cell walls of some species of red algae, primarily from the genera Gelidium and Gracilaria, or seaweed (Sphaerococcus euchema).
Acephali: Acephali (from the Greek language a-, "without," and kephale, "head") is a term applied to several sects as having no head or leader. In particular, the term refers to a strict monophysite sect that separated itself, in the end of the 5th century, from the rule of Peter Mongus, Patriarch of Alexandria, and remained "without king or bishop" until they were reconciled by Mark II (799 - 819). The term is also used to denote clerici vagantes, i.e.
Anthony of Saxony: Anthony (b. Dresden, 27 December 1755 - d. Dresden, 6 June 1836), also known by his German name Anton, was a King of Saxony (1827-1836) from the House of Wettin. He became known as Anton der Gtige, . He was the fifth but third surviving son of Frederick Christian, Elector of Saxony, and Maria Antonia Walpurgis of Bavaria.
Arlo Guthrie: Arlo Davy Guthrie (born July 10, 1947) is an American folk singer. Like his father, Woody Guthrie, Arlo often sings songs of protest against social injustice. One of Guthrie's works is "Alice's Restaurant Massacree," a satirical talking blues song of about 18 minutes in length.
Book of Alma: The Book of Alma is one of the books that make up the Book of Mormon. The full title is The Book of Alma: The Son of Alma. The title refers to Alma the Younger, a prophet and "chief judge" of the Nephites.
Antioxidant: An antioxidant is a molecule capable of slowing or preventing the oxidation of other molecules. Oxidation is a chemical reaction that transfers electrons from a substance to an oxidizing agent. Oxidation reactions can produce free radicals, which start chain reactions that damage cells. Antioxidants terminate these chain reactions by removing free radical intermediates, and inhibit other oxidation reactions by being oxidized themselves.
Brass: Brass is any alloy of copper and zinc; the proportions of zinc and copper can be varied to create a range of brasses with varying properties. In comparison, bronze is principally an alloy of copper and tin. Despite this distinction some types of brasses are called bronzes and vice-versa. Brass is a substitutional alloy.
Bonn: Bonn is the 19th largest city in Germany. Located in the Cologne/Bonn Region, about 25 kilometres south of Cologne on the river Rhine in the Federal State of North Rhine-Westphalia, it was the capital of West Germany from 1949 to 1990 and the official seat of government of united Germany from 1990 to 1999. Starting in 1998, many national government institutions were moved from Bonn to Berlin.
Albert III Duke of Saxony: Albert III was a Duke of Saxony. He was nicknamed Albert the Bold or Albert the Courageous and founded the Albertine line of the House of Wettin. Albert was born in Grimma as the third and youngest son (but fifth child in order of birth) of Frederick II the Gentle, Elector of Saxony, and Margarete of Austria, sister of Frederick III, Holy Roman Emperor. Later, he was a member of the Order of the Golden Fleece.
Baltic Sea: The Baltic Sea is a brackish inland sea located in Northern Europe, from 53 to 66 latitude and from 20 to 26 longitude. It is bounded by the Scandinavian Peninsula, the mainland of Europe, and the Danish islands. It drains into the Kattegat by way of the esund, the Great Belt and the Little Belt. The Kattegat continues through Skagerrak into the North Sea and the Atlantic Ocean.
The Birth of a Nation: The Birth of a Nation (premiered with the title The Clansman) is a 1915 silent film directed by D. W. Griffith. Set during and after the American Civil War, the film was based on Thomas Dixon's The Clansman, a novel and play. The Birth of a Nation was the highest-grossing film of its day, and is noted for its innovative camera techniques and narrative achievements.
Ballroom dance: Ballroom dance refers to a set of partner dances, which are enjoyed both socially and competitively around the world. Its performance and entertainment aspects are also widely enjoyed on stage, in film, and on television. Ballroom dance may refer, at its widest, to almost any type of social dancing as recreation. However, with the emergence of dancesport in modern times, the term has become narrower in scope.
Brackish water: Brackish water is water that has more salinity than fresh water, but not as much as seawater. It may result from mixing of seawater with fresh water, as in estuaries, or it may occur in brackish fossil aquifers. The word comes from the Middle Dutch root "brak," meaning "salten" or "salty".
BearShare: BearShare is a peer-to-peer file sharing application originally created by Free Peers, Inc. for Microsoft Windows, and is now sold by MusicLab, LLC.
The Bronx: The Bronx is the northernmost of the Five Boroughs of New York City. It is also the newest of the 62 counties of New York State. Located northeast of Manhattan and south of Westchester County, New York, the Bronx is the only borough not primarily located on an island. In 2009, the U.S. Census Bureau estimated that the borough's population on July 1, 2008 was 1,391,903, inhabiting a land area of 42 square miles (109 square kilometers).
Blues: Blues is the name given to both a musical form and a music genre created primarily within the African-American communities in the Deep South of the United States at the end of the 19th century from spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads.
Benjamin Lee Whorf: Benjamin Lee Whorf (April 24, 1897 in Winthrop, Massachusetts - July 26, 1941) was an American linguist. Whorf is widely known for his ideas about linguistic relativity, the hypothesis that language influences thought. An important theme in many of his publications, he has been credited as one of the fathers of this approach, often referred to as the "Sapir-Whorf hypothesis", named after him and his mentor Edward Sapir.
Bill Clinton: William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton (born William Jefferson Blythe III, August 19, 1946) was the 42nd President of the United States from 1993 to 2001. He was the third-youngest president; only Theodore Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy were younger when entering office. He became president at the end of the Cold War, and as he was born in the period after World War II, he is known as the first Baby Boomer president. His wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, is currently the United States Secretary of State.
Berlin: Berlin is the capital city and one of 16 states of Germany. With a population of 3.4 million people, Berlin is Germany's largest city. It is the second most populous city and the eighth most populous urban area in the European Union. Located in northeastern Germany, it is the center of the Berlin-Brandenburg Metropolitan Area, comprising 5 million people from over 190 nations. Geographically embedded in the European Plains, Berlin is influenced by a temperate seasonal climate.
Belgium: The Kingdom of Belgium is a country in northwest Europe. It is a founding member of the European Union and hosts its headquarters, as well as those of other major international organizations, including NATO. Belgium covers an area of 30,528 square kilometres (11,787 sq mi) and has a population of about 10.7 million.
Black letter law: The black letter law refers to the basic standard elements for a particular field of law, which are generally known and free from doubt or dispute. It may, for example, be the standard elements for a contract or the technical definition of battery. The term "black-letter law" is also used commonly in the American legal system to mean well-established case law.
Blue law: A blue law is a type of law, typically found in the United States, designed to enforce religious standards, particularly the observance of Sunday as a day of worship or rest, and a restriction on Sunday shopping. Most have been repealed, have been declared unconstitutional, or are simply unenforced, although prohibitions on the sale of alcoholic beverages, and occasionally almost all commerce, on Sundays are still enforced in many areas.
Bar: The term bar may refer to:
Bit: A bit is the basic unit of information in computing and telecommunications; it is the amount of information that can be stored by a device or other physical system that can normally exist in only two distinct states. These may be the two stable positions of an electrical switch, two distinct voltage or current levels allowed by a circuit, two distinct levels of light intensity, two directions of magnetization or polarization, etc.
Beer: Beer is the world's oldest and most widely consumed alcoholic beverage and the third most popular drink overall after water and tea. It is produced by the brewing and fermentation of starches, mainly derived from cereal grainsmost commonly malted barley, although wheat, maize (corn), and rice are widely used. Most beer is flavoured with hops, which add bitterness and act as a natural preservative, though other flavourings such as herbs or fruit may occasionally be included.
Boron nitride: Boron nitride is a chemical compound with chemical formula BN, consisting of equal numbers of boron and nitrogen atoms. BN is isoelectronic to a similarly structured carbon lattice and thus exists in various crystalline forms. The hexagonal form corresponding to graphite is the most stable and softest among BN polymorphs, and is therefore used as a lubricant and an additive to cosmetic products. The cubic variety analogous to diamond is called c-BN.
Byte: The byte is a unit of digital information in computing and telecommunications. It is an ordered collection of bits, in which each bit denotes the binary value of 1 or 0. Historically, a byte was the number of bits (typically 6, 7, 8, or 9) used to encode a character of text in a computer and it is for this reason the basic addressable element in many computer architectures.
 Love and Theft: "Love and Theft" is singer-songwriter Bob Dylan's 31st studio album, released by Columbia Records in September 2001. The album continued Dylan's artistic comeback following 1997's Time out of Mind, and was given an even more enthusiastic reception. Though often referred to without quotations, the correct title is "Love and Theft".
Blood on the Tracks: Blood on the Tracks is singer-songwriter Bob Dylan's 15th studio album, released by Columbia Records in January 1975. The album marked Dylan's return to Columbia after a two-album stint with Asylum Records. The album, which followed several years of lukewarm reception for Dylan's work, was greeted enthusiatically by fans and critics.
Beryllium: Beryllium is the chemical element with the symbol Be and atomic number 4. A bivalent element, beryllium is found naturally only combined with other elements in minerals. Notable gemstones which contain beryllium include beryl and chrysoberyl. The free element is a steel-gray, strong, lightweight brittle alkaline earth metal. It is primarily used as a hardening agent in alloys, notably beryllium copper.
The Beverly Hillbillies: The Beverly Hillbillies is an American television sitcom. Panned by many entertainment critics of its time, it quickly became a ratings success for CBS. The series was about a hillbilly family transplanted to Beverly Hills, California after finding oil on their land. A Filmways production, the series aired on CBS from September 26, 1962 - September 7, 1971 and comprises 274 episodes106 in black-and-white (1962-1965) and 168 in color (1965-1971).
Britney Spears: Britney Jean Spears (born December 2, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, dancer, actress, author and entertainer. Born in Mississippi and raised in Louisiana, Spears first appeared on national television in 1992 as a contestant on the Star Search program, and went on to star in Disney Channel's television series The All New Mickey Mouse Club from 1993 to 1994. In 1997, Spears signed a recording contract with Jive, releasing her debut album ... Baby One More Time in 1999.
Black Forest: The Black Forest is a wooded mountain range in Baden-Wrttemberg, southwestern Germany. It is bordered by the Rhine valley to the west and south. The highest peak is the Feldberg with an elevation of 1,493 metres (4,898 ft). The region is almost rectangular with a length of 200 km (120 mi) and breadth of 60 km (37 mi). Hence it has an area of approximately 12,000 km (4,600 sq mi).
Brazil: Brazil, officially the Federative Republic of Brazil, is the largest country in South America and the only Portuguese-speaking country in the Americas. It is the fifth largest country by geographical area and the fifth most populous country in the world. Bounded by the Atlantic Ocean on the east, Brazil has a coastline of over 7,491 kilometers (4,655 mi).
Bible: The Bible refers to one of two closely related religious texts central to Judaism and Christianitythe Hebrew or Christian sacred scriptures respectively. The Hebrew Bible, composed between the 14th and 5th centuries BCE, is the main source for the history of ancient Israel. The five books of the Torah comprise the origins of the Israelite nation and its covenant with God. The Prophets consist of prophetic and ethical teachings, as well as the historic account of Israel.
Black Sea: The Black Sea is an inland sea bounded by Europe, Anatolia and the Caucasus and is ultimately connected to the Atlantic Ocean via the Mediterranean and Aegean Seas and various straits. The Bosphorus strait connects it to the Sea of Marmara, and the strait of the Dardanelles connects it to the Aegean Sea region of the Mediterranean. These waters separate eastern Europe and western Asia. The Black Sea also connects to the Sea of Azov by the Strait of Kerch.
Gautama Buddha: Siddhrtha Gautama was a spiritual teacher in the north eastern region of the Indian subcontinent who founded Buddhism. In most Buddhist traditions, he is regarded as the Supreme Buddha (Sammsambuddha) of our age, "Buddha" meaning "awakened one" or "the enlightened one. " The time of his birth and death are uncertain: most early 20th-century historians dated his lifetime as c.
Bridge: A bridge is a structure built to span a valley, road, body of water, or other physical obstacle, for the purpose of providing passage over the obstacle. Designs of bridges vary depending on the function of the bridge and the nature of the terrain where the bridge is constructed. But since the world has been making new types of bridges, more have been proven to be safer and to be more logical to use. There are even retracting bridges that are used for curfews.
Board game: A board game is a game in which counters or pieces are placed, removed, or moved on a premarked surface or "board" according to a set of rules. Games may be based on pure strategy, chance or a mixture of the two and usually have a goal which a player aims to achieve. Early board games represented a battle between two armies and most current board games are still based on beating opposing players in terms of counters, winning position or accrual of points (often expressed as in-game currency).
Beadwork: Beadwork is the art or craft of attaching beads to one another or to cloth, usually by the use of a needle and thread or soft, flexible wire. Most beadwork takes the form of jewelry or other personal adornment, but beads are also used in wall hangings and sculpture. Beadwork techniques are broadly divided into loom and off-loom weaving, stringing, bead embroidery, bead crochet, and bead knitting. Most cultures have employed beads for personal adornment.
Bead weaving: Bead weaving using seed beads can be done either on a loom or using one of a number of off-loom stitches.
Branchiopoda: Branchiopoda is a group of primitive and primarily fresh water crustaceans, mostly resembling shrimp. There are over 900 known species worldwide. A few are well-known, including Artemia, and Daphnia, both of which are raised as aquarium food or as interesting pets in and of themselves. Branchiopods should not be confused with Brachiopods. In older classifications, the superorder Diplostraca was made up of the two orders Conchostraca and Cladocera.
Being: In the English language being' by synecdoche, the use of the whole to mean the part, being is also the word used for conceptualizing subjective aspects fundamental to the self related to and somewhat interchangeable with ideas about human "existence" and "living" in which "being" or "[one's/a] state of being" is rooted in personal experience, and reflected in aspects of innate personal character.
Baruch Spinoza: Baruch or Benedict de Spinoza (November 24, 1632 - February 21, 1677) was a Dutch philosopher of Portuguese Jewish origin. Revealing considerable scientific aptitude, the breadth and importance of Spinoza's work was not fully realized until years after his death. Today, he is considered one of the great rationalists of 17th-century philosophy, laying the groundwork for the 18th century Enlightenment and modern biblical criticism.
Bead: A bead is a small, decorative object that is pierced for threading or stringing. Beads range in size from under 1 millimetre (0.039 in) to over 1 centimetre (0.39 in) in diameter. A pair of beads made from Nassarius sea snail shells, approximately 100,000 years old, are thought to be the earliest known examples of jewellery. Beadwork is the art or craft of making things with beads.
Burn card: In card games, a burn card is a playing card dealt from the top of a deck, and discarded ("burned"), unused by the players. Burn cards are almost always placed face down next to the discard pile without being revealed to the players. Burning is most often performed in casinos to deter a form of cheating known as card marking.
...Baby One More Time: ... Baby One More Time is the debut album by American pop singer Britney Spears, released on January 12, 1999 on Jive Records. The album was a worldwide commercial success, reaching the top five in nineteen countries, and number one in fifteen, including the U. S Billboard 200. The album helped propel Spears into mainstream popularity. With the release of the lead single "...
British Columbia: British Columbia /En-ca-BritishColumbia. oggbrt kmb/ (BC) is the westernmost of Canada's provinces and is known for its natural beauty, as reflected in its Latin motto, Splendor sine occasu ("Splendour without Diminishment"). In 1871, it became the sixth province of Canada. The capital of British Columbia is Victoria, the 15th largest metropolitan region in Canada.
Bird: Birds are winged, bipedal, endothermic, egg-laying, vertebrate animals. There are around 10,000 living species, making them the most numerous tetrapod vertebrates. They inhabit ecosystems across the globe, from the Arctic to the Antarctic. Extant birds range in size from the 5 cm (2 in) Bee Hummingbird to the 3 m (10 ft) Ostrich.
Biennial plant: A biennial plant is a flowering plant that takes two years to complete its biological lifecycle. In the first year the plant grows leaves, stems, and roots (vegetative structures), then it enters a period of dormancy over the colder months. Usually the stem remains very short and the leaves are low to the ground, forming a rosette. Many biennials require a cold treatment, or vernalization, before they will flower.
Bay leaf: Bay leaf (plural bay leaves) refers to the aromatic leaf of the bay laurel (Laurus nobilis, Lauraceae). Fresh or dried bay leaves are used in cooking for their distinctive flavor and fragrance. The leaves are often used to flavor soups, stews, braises and p in Mediterranean cuisine. The fresh leaves are very mild and do not develop their full flavor until several weeks after picking and drying.
Basis: Basis may refer to Cost basis, in income tax law, the original cost of property adjusted for factors such as depreciation.
Bulgaria: Bulgaria, officially the Republic of Bulgaria, is a country in the Balkans in south-eastern Europe. Bulgaria borders five other countries: Romania to the north (mostly along the River Danube), Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia to the west, and Greece and Turkey to the south. The Black Sea defines the extent of the country to the east. With a territory of 110,994 square kilometers, Bulgaria ranks as the third-largest country in Southeast Europe (after Romania and Greece).
Bryozoa: The Bryozoa, also known as Ectoprocta, are a phylum of aquatic invertebrate animals. Typically about 0.5 millimetres (0.020 in) long, they sieve food particles out of the water using a retractable lophophore, a "crown" of tentacles lined with cilia. Most marine species live in tropical waters, but a few occur in oceanic trenches, and others are found in polar waters. One class lives only in a variety of freshwater environments, and a few members of a mostly marine class prefer brackish water.
Beavis and Butt-head: Beavis and Butt-head is an American animated television series created by Mike Judge. Judge's short film "", starring the characters Beavis and Butt-head was featured on Liquid Television, a show featuring short animated and live action material that could be considered the precursor to Cartoon Network's Adult Swim. Cable television channel MTV signed Judge to create the series, and it aired from March 8, 1993, to November 28, 1997. The series has retained a large cult following.
Burgess Shale: The Burgess Shale Formation - located in the Canadian Rockies of British Columbia - is one of the world's most celebrated fossil fields, and the best of its kind. It is famous for the exceptional preservation of the soft parts of its fossils. It is 505 million years old, one of the earliest soft-parts fossil beds. The rock unit is a black shale, and crops out at a number of localities near the town of Field in the Yoho National Park.
Bromeliales: The Bromeliales is the botanical name of an order of flowering plants. Such an order has been recognized by a few systems of plant taxonomy, with a various placement. It appears that it always has had the same: consisting only of the family Bromeliaceae, the bromeliad or pineapple family. The order is not recognized in the APG II system, of 2003, which places the plants involved in the order Poales.
Brassicales: The Brassicales are an order of flowering plants, belonging to the eurosids II group of dicotyledons under the APG II system. One character common to many members of the order is the production of glucosinolate (mustard oil) compounds. Most systems of classification have included this order, although sometimes under the name Capparales (the name chosen depending on which is thought to have priority).
Bulletin board system: A Bulletin Board System, or BBS, is a computer system running software that allows users to connect and log in to the system using a terminal program. Once logged in, a user can perform functions such as uploading and downloading software and data, reading news and bulletins, and exchanging messages with other users, either through electronic mail or in public message boards.
String Quartet No. 16 Beethoven: The String Quartet No. 16 in F major, Op. 135, by Ludwig van Beethoven was written in October 1826 and was the last substantial work he finished. Only the last movement of the Quartet Op. 130, written as a replacement for the Groe Fuge, was written later. It was premiered by the Schuppanzigh Quartet in March 1828. The work is on a smaller scale than his other late quartets.
Piano Trios Nos. 1-3 Beethoven: Piano Trios, Opus 1 Ludwig van Beethoven - Opus 1 Three trios for piano, violin, and violoncello, first performed in 1793 in the house of Prince Lichnowsky, to whom they are dedicated, and published in 1795.
Symphony No. 9 Beethoven: The Symphony No. 9 in D minor, Op. 125 "Choral" is the final complete symphony of Ludwig van Beethoven. Completed in 1824, the symphony is one of the best known works of the Western classical repertoire. It is considered one of Beethoven's most highly regarded masterpieces. The symphony was the first example of a major composer using voices in a symphony. The words are sung during the final movement by four vocal soloists and a chorus.
Violin Sonata No. 5 Beethoven: The Violin Sonata No. 5 in F major, Opus 24, is a violin sonata by Ludwig van Beethoven. It is often known as the "Spring" sonata, and was published in 1801. Its dedicatee was Count Moritz von Fries, a patron to whom the fourth violin sonata, the string quintet of the same year, and the seventh symphony were also dedicated.
Piano Trio No. 7 Beethoven: The Piano Trio No. 7 Op. 97 in B-flat major by Ludwig van Beethoven is a piano trio for piano, violin, and violoncello published in 1811. It is commonly referred to as the Archduke Trio, because it was dedicated to the amateur pianist and composition student of Beethoven, Archduke Rudolph of Austria. It was written during the "middle" period of Beethoven's compositional career, which spans approximately 1803 until 1814. Composition began in the summer of 1810 and it was completed in March 1811.
Piano Trios Nos. 5-6 Beethoven: Opus 70 is a set of two Piano Trios by Ludwig van Beethoven. They were published in 1809. Written for piano, violin, and cello. The first, in D major, known as the Ghost, is one of his best known works in the genre (rivaled only by the Archduke Trio). The D major trio features themes found in the second movement of Beethoven's Symphony No. 2.
Blindness: Blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception due to physiological or neurological factors. Various scales have been developed to describe the extent of vision loss and define blindness. Total blindness is the complete lack of form and visual light perception and is clinically recorded as NLP, an abbreviation for "no light perception. " Blindness is frequently used to describe severe visual impairment with vision.
Barratry: Barratry is the name of two legal concepts, one in criminal and civil law, and one in admiralty law.
Bomber: A bomber is a military aircraft designed to attack ground and sea targets, primarily by dropping bombs on them.
Big Dipper disambiguation: Big Dipper is the American term for the seven brightest stars of Ursa Major, called the Plough in Britain. Big Dipper also may refer to: Big Dipper, alternative name for a roller coaster ride, especially in the United Kingdom.
The Bahamas: The Bahamas, officially the Commonwealth of The Bahamas, is an English-speaking country consisting of 29 islands, 661 cays, and 2,387 islets (rocks). It is located in the Atlantic Ocean north of Cuba, Hispaniola and the Caribbean Sea, northwest of the Turks and Caicos Islands, and southeast of the United States of America (nearest to the state of Florida). Its total land area is almost 14 000 km, with an estimated population of 330,000. Its capital is Nassau.
Bursa: Bursa is a city in northwestern Turkey and the seat of Bursa Province. With a population of 2,562,828 in 2007, it is Turkey's fourth largest city, as well as one of the most industrialized and culturally charged metropolitan centers in the country. Bursa is settled on the northwestern slopes of Mount Uluda in the southern Marmara Region.
Cue sports: Cue sports (sometimes spelled cuesports), also known as billiard sports, are a wide variety of games of skill generally played with a cue stick which is used to strike billiard balls, moving them around a cloth-covered billiards table bounded by rubber cushions. Historically, the umbrella term was billiards.
Barbados: Barbados, situated just east of the Caribbean Sea, is a West Indian continental island-nation in the western Atlantic Ocean. After a brief claim by Spain in 1492 and later Portugal, Barbados became a colony and protectorate of the United Kingdom for over three centuries. The country currently maintains Queen Elizabeth II as head of state. Located at roughly 13 North of the equator and 59 West of the prime meridian, it is considered a part of the Lesser Antilles.
Bangladesh: Bangladesh, officially the The People's Republic of Bangladesh is a country in South Asia. It is bordered by India on all sides except for a small border with Burma (Myanmar) to the far southeast and by the Bay of Bengal to the south. Together with the Indian state of West Bengal, it makes up the ethno-linguistic region of Bengal. The name Bangladesh means "Country of Bengal" in the official Bengali language.
Bassas da India: Bassas da India (also called Basse de Judie) is an uninhabited, roughly circular atoll about 10 km (6 mi) in diameter, which corresponds to a total size of 80 km (31 sq mi). It is located in the southern Mozambique Channel, about half-way between Madagascar (which is 385 km to the east) and Mozambique, and 110 km (68 mi) northwest of Europa Island. It rises steeply from the seabed 3000 m below.
Belize: Belize, is a country in Central America. Belize has a diverse society, composed of many cultures and speaking many languages. Although Kriol and Spanish are spoken among the population, Belize is the only country in Central America where English is the official language. It is bordered by Mexico to the north, Guatemala to the south and west, and the Caribbean Sea to the east. With 8,867 square miles (22,960 km) of territory and 320,000 people (2008 est.
Benin: Benin, officially the Republic of Benin, is a country in West Africa. It borders Togo to the west, Nigeria to the east and Burkina Faso and Niger to the north; its short coastline to the south leads to the Bight of Benin. Its size is just over 110000 km with a population of almost 8,500,000. Its capital is the Yoruba founded city of Porto-Novo but the seat of government is the Fon city of Cotonou.
Belarus: Belarus, pronounced /lru/ bel--, is a landlocked country in Eastern Europe, bordered by Russia to the north and east, Ukraine to the south, Poland to the west, and Lithuania and Latvia to the north. Its capital is Minsk; other major cities include Brest, Grodno (Hrodna), Gomel (Homiel), Mogilev (Mahilyow) and Vitebsk (Viciebsk). Forty percent of the country is forested, and its strongest economic sectors are agriculture and manufacturing.
Bermuda: Bermuda (officially, the Bermuda Islands or the Somers Isles) is a British overseas territory in the North Atlantic Ocean. Located off the east coast of the United States, its nearest landmass is Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, about 1,030 kilometres (640 mi) to the west-northwest. It is about 1,350 km (840 mi) south of Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, and 1,770 km (1,100 mi) northeast of Miami, Florida. Its capital city is Hamilton.
Bolivia: Bolivia, officially known as: The Plurinational State of Bolivia, is a landlocked country in central South America. It is bordered by Brazil to the north and east, Paraguay and Argentina to the south, and Chile and Peru to the west. Prior to European colonization, the Bolivian territory was a part of the Inca Empire, which was the largest state in Pre-Columbian America. The Spanish Empire conquered the region in the 16th century.
Baker Island: Baker Island is an uninhabited atoll located just north of the equator in the central Pacific Ocean about 3,100 kilometers (1,700 nmi) southwest of Honolulu. The island lies almost halfway between Hawaii and Australia, and is a possession of the United States. Its nearest neighbor is Howland Island, 68 kilometers (37 nmi) to the north.
Botswana: The Republic of Botswana is a landlocked country in Southern Africa. Citizens of Botswana are called "Batswana", regardless of ethnicity. Formerly the British protectorate of Bechuanaland, Botswana adopted its new name after becoming independent within the Commonwealth on 30 September 1966. It has held free and fair democratic elections since independence. Geographically the country is flat and up to 70% of Botswana is covered by the Kalahari Desert.
British Virgin Islands: The British Virgin Islands (BVI), also called the Virgin Islands is a British overseas territory, located in the Caribbean to the east of Puerto Rico. The islands make up part of the Virgin Islands archipelago, the remaining islands constituting the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Brunei: Brunei (in English), officially the State of Brunei Darussalam or the Nation of Brunei, the Abode of Peace, is a country located on the north coast of the island of Borneo, in Southeast Asia. Apart from its coastline with the South China Sea it is completely surrounded by the state of Sarawak, Malaysia, and in fact it is separated into two parts by Limbang, which is part of Sarawak.
Burkina Faso: Burkina Faso - also known by its short-form name Burkina - is a landlocked country in West Africa. It is surrounded by six countries: Mali to the north, Niger to the east, Benin to the south east, Togo and Ghana to the south, and Ce d'Ivoire to the southwest. Its size is 274,000 km with an estimated population of more than 15,757,000.
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Bosnia and Herzegovina (is a country in South-East Europe, on the Balkan Peninsula. Bordered by Croatia to the north, west and south, Serbia to the east, and Montenegro to the southeast, Bosnia and Herzegovina is almost landlocked, except for 26 kilometres of Adriatic Sea coastline, centered on the town of Neum. The interior of the country is mountainous centrally and to the south, hilly in the northwest, and flatland in the northeast.
Economy of the Bahamas: The Bahamas is a stable, developing nation with an economy heavily dependent on tourism and offshore banking. Steady growth in tourism receipts and a boom in construction of new hotels, resorts, and residences had led to solid GDP growth in recent years, but the slowdown in the US economy and the attacks of 11 September 2001 held back growth in these sectors in 2001-03. Financial services constitute the second-most important sector of the Bahamian economy, accounting for about 15% of GDP.
Government of Barbados: The Government of Barbados consists of: The Monarch, HRM Queen Elizabeth II and her representative the Governor-General, HE Clifford Husbands; The Prime Minister, The Hon. David Thompson, and his Cabinet; and a Legislature divided into two legislative chambers of Parliament. In keeping with the evolution of the Westminster system of governance, Barbados has evolved into a Parliamentary democracy and Constitutional monarchy, meaning that all real power rests with the Parliament.
Telecommunications in Belarus: Communications in Belarus are dominated by the state which owns most of the corporations and infrastructure.
Government of Belarus: The Council of the Republic of Belarus is the executive branch of state power in Belarus, and it is appointed by the President of Belarus. The head of the Government is the Prime Minister of Belarus, who manages the main agenda of the Government and direct the ministers.
Armed Forces of Belarus: The Armed Forces of Belarus consist of the Army and the Air Force, all under the command of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Belarus. Colonel General Leonid Maltsev is currently the Minister of Defense. Being a landlocked country, Belarus has no navy. The previous Belarusian National Republic of March 1918 to 1919 did not have time to create armed forces in its brief existence, although attempts to create a military have been documented.
Foreign relations of Belarus: The Byelorussian SSR was one of only two Soviet republics to be separate members of the United Nations (the other being the Ukrainian SSR). Both republics and the Soviet Union joined the UN when the organization was founded in 1945.
Telecommunications in Belgium: Communications in Belgium are extensive and advanced. Belgium possesses the infrastructure for both mobile and land-based telecom, as well as having significant television, radio and internet infrastructure. The country code for Belgium is BE.
Transport in Belgium: This article is about transportation in Belgium.
Economy of Benin: The economy of Benin remains underdeveloped and dependent on subsistence agriculture and cotton. Cotton accounts for 40% of GDP and roughly 80% of official export receipts. There is also production of textiles, palm products, and cocoa beans. Maize (corn), beans, rice, peanuts, cashews, pineapples, cassava, yams, and other various tubers are grown for local subsistence. Benin began producing a modest quantity of offshore oil in October 1982.
Economy of Bhutan: Industrial production growth rate: 9.3% (1996 est. ) Electricity: production: 2 TWh (2005) consumption: 380 GWh (2005) exports: 1.5 TWh (2005) (exports electricity to India) imports: 20 GWh (2005) Electricity - production by source: fossil fuel: 0.39% hydro: 99.61% nuclear: 0% other: 0% (1998) Oil: production: 0 barrel/day (2005) consumption: 1,200 barrel/day (2005 est.
Lhop: The Lhop or Doya are a little-known tribe of southwest Bhutan. The Bhutanese believe them to be the aboriginal inhabitants of the country, although this claim has not been substantiated by anthropologists. The Lhop are found in the low valleys of Samtse and near Phuntsholing in the Duars. They are also known as the Lhops, Lhopu, or Lhokpu and speak a Tibeto-Burman language. They total approximately 1000 persons.
Blindness in literature: Different cultures through history have depicted blindness in a variety of ways; among the Greeks, for example, it was a punishment from the gods, for which the afflicted individual was often granted compensation in the form of artistic genius. Judeo-Christian literature positioned blindness as a flaw; only through a cure could Gods love be made manifest, when the scales would fall away from the eyes of an afflicted individual upon contact with a holy man or relic.
Transport in Belarus: Rail transport in Belarus is operated by Belarusskaja eleznaja Doroga (BD / ) total: 5,512 km country comparison to the world: 32 broad gauge: 5,497 km of 1,520 mm (4 ft 11+6 in) gauge (874 km electrified) (2006) City with underground railway system: Minsk, see Minsk Metro
Geography of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Arable land: 14% Permanent crops: 5% Permanent pastures: 20% Forests and woodland: 39% Other: 22% (1993 est. ) Irrigated land: 20 km (1993 est.)
Demographics of Bosnia and Herzegovina: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina: This page discusses the Economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina since Bosnia and Herzegovina's declaration of sovereignty in October 1991 and the declaration of independence from the former Yugoslavia on 3 March 1992.
Politics of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Politics of Bosnia and Herzegovina takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. Members of the parliament are chosen according to Proportional representation system. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Military of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina is the official military force of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Bosnian Armed forces were unified in 2005 and are composed of two founding armies: Bosniak-Croat, Army of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Bosnian Serb, Army of Republika Srpska. The Ministry of Defense of Bosnia and Herzegovina, founded in 2004, is in charge of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Geography of Botswana: Botswana is a landlocked country located in Southern Africa, north of South Africa. Botswana occupies an area of 600,370 square kilometres, of which 585,000km are land. Botswana has land boundaries of combined length 4,013 kilometres, of which the constituent boundaries are shared with Namibia, for 1,360 km; South Africa 1,840 km; Zimbabwe, 813 km and Zambia, less than 1 km. Much of the population of Botswana is concentrated in the eastern part of the country.
Foreign relations of Bosnia and Herzegovina: The implementation of the Dayton Accords of 1995 has focused the efforts of policymakers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the international community, on regional stabilization in the countries-successors of the former Yugoslavia. Within Bosnia and Herzegovina, relations with its neighbors of Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia have been fairly stable since the signing of the Dayton Agreement in 1995.
History of Botswana: The Batswana, a term also used to denote all citizens of Botswana, refers to the country's major ethnic group (called the "Tswana" in South Africa). Prior to European contact, the Batswana lived as herders and farmers under tribal rule.
Demographics of Botswana: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Botswana, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Botswana, like many nations in southern Africa, suffers from a high AIDS infection rates, estimated in a 2002 UN report to be 38.8% for adults. Demographic data from the 2001 Botswana census are included for comparison with 2006 CIA estimates.
Politics of Botswana: Politics of Botswana takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Botswana is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Parliament of Botswana. Since independence the party system is dominated by the Botswana Democratic Party (BDP), which has never lost power since independence.
Telecommunications in Botswana: Communications in Botswana A fiber-optic telecommunications network has been completed in Botswana connecting all major population centers. In addition to the government-owned newspaper and national radio network, there is an active, independent press (six weekly newspapers). Two privately owned radio stations began operations in 1999. At the end of July 2000, the government-owned Botswana Television (BTV) was launched, which is Botswana's first national television station.
Transport in Botswana: A sparsely populated, arid country, Botswana has nonetheless managed to incorporate much of its interior into the national economy. An "inner circle" highway connecting all major towns and district capitals is completely paved, and the all-weather Trans-Kalahari Highway connects the country to Walvis Bay in Namibia.
Foreign relations of Botswana: Botswana has put a premium on economic and political integration in southern Africa. It has sought to make SADC a working vehicle for economic development, and it has promoted efforts to make the region self-policing in terms of preventative diplomacy, conflict resolution, and good governance. It has welcomed post-apartheid South Africa as a partner in these efforts.
Politics of Brazil: Politics of Brazil takes place in a framework of a federal presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Brazil is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of the National Congress. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. Brazil is divided into 27 states, including the Federal District.
Economy of Botswana: Since independence, Botswana has had the highest average economic growth rate in the world, averaging about 9% per year from 1966 to 1999. Growth in private sector employment has averaged about 10% per annum over the first 30 years of independence. The relatively high quality of the country's statistics means that these figures are likely to be quite accurate. The government has consistently maintained budget surpluses and has extensive foreign exchange reserves.
Economy of Brazil: Brazil has moderately free markets and an inward-oriented economy. Measured nominally, its gross domestic product surpasses $1.6 trillion dollars, the eighth in the world and the second in the Americas in the World Bank ranking; measured by purchasing power parity, $1.9 trillion, making it the ninth largest economy in the world and the second largest in the Americas, after the United States. In Reais (Brazilian currency), its GDP is estimated at R$ 2.9 trillion reais in 2008.
Telecommunications in Brazil: Brazil has both modern technologies in the center-south portion, counting with 3G HSDPA, VDSL2+, Digital Tv. Other areas of the country, particularly the north and north-west regions, lack even basic analogue land line phones. This is a problem that the governnment is trying to solve by linking the liberation of new technologies only tied with compromises on extension of the service to less populated regions.
Transport in Brazil: Transport infrastructure in Brazil is characterized by strong regional differences and lack of development of the national rail network. . Brazil's fast growing economy, and especially the growth in exports, will place increasing demands on the transport networks. However, sizeable new investments that are expected to address some of the issues are either planned or in progress.
Brazilian Armed Forces: The Brazilian Armed Forces comprise the Brazilian Army, the Brazilian Navy and the Brazilian Air Force. Brazil's armed forces are the largest in Latin America, with 371,199 active-duty troops and officers. With no serious external or internal threats, the armed forces are searching for a new role. They are expanding their presence in the Amazon under the Northern Corridor (Calha Norte) program. In 1994 Brazilian troops joined United Nations (UN) peacekeeping forces in five countries.
Geography of the British Virgin Islands: See also: British Virgin Islands
Foreign relations of Brazil: The Ministry of External Relations is responsible for managing the foreign relations of Brazil. Brazil is a significant political and economic power in Latin America and a key player on the world stage. Brazil's foreign policy reflects its role as an emerging world power and is designed to help protect the country's national interests, national security, ideological goals, and economic prosperity.
Geography of Brazil: The country of Brazil occupies roughly half of South America, bordering the Atlantic Ocean. Brazil covers a total area of 8,514,215 km (3,287,357 sq mi) which includes 8,456,510 km (3,265,080 sq mi) of land and 55,455 km (21,411 sq mi) of water. The highest point in Brazil is Pico da Neblina at 2,994 m (9,823 ft). Brazil is bordered by the countries of Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, French Guiana, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Uruguay and Venezuela.
Demographics of the British Virgin Islands: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the British Virgin Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Economy of the British Virgin Islands: The economy of the British Virgin Islands is one of the most prosperous in the Caribbean. According to the CIA World factbook, in 2004 the Territory had the 12th highest GDP per capita in the world. The economy of the Territory is based upon the "twin pillars" of tourism, which generates an estimated 45% of the national income, and financial services, which generates almost all of the rest.
Transport in the British Virgin Islands: The systems of transport in the British Virgin Islands include 113 kilometres of highway and a harbour at Road Town.
Economy of Brunei: The small, wealthy economy is a mixture of foreign and domestic entrepreneurship, government regulation and welfare measures, and village tradition. It is almost totally supported by exports of crude oil and natural gas, with revenues from the petroleum sector accounting for over half of GDP. Per capita GDP is high, and substantial income from overseas investment supplements income from domestic production. The government provides for all medical services and subsidizes food and housing.
Telecommunications in Brunei: Communications in Brunei.
Foreign relations of Brunei: Brunei joined ASEAN on January 7, 1984, one week after resuming full independence, and gives its ASEAN membership the highest priority in its foreign relations. Brunei joined the UN in September 1984. It also is a member of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC), the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum and the Commonwealth of Nations. Brunei hosted the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting in November 2000. In 2005 it attended the inaugural East Asia Summit.
Transport in Brunei: Transport in Brunei.
Politics of Bulgaria: Politics of Bulgaria take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Minister-Chairman is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Geography of Bulgaria: Bulgaria is a country situated in south-eastern Europe, bordering Romania, Serbia, the Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Turkey and the Black Sea. Its northern border with Romania follows the Danube river until Silistra. The land area of Bulgaria is 110,550 square kilometers, slightly larger than that of Iceland or the U.S. state of Tennessee. The country is situated on the west coast of the Black Sea, with Romania to the north, Greece and Turkey to the south, and Serbia and Macedonia to the west.
Economy of Bulgaria: The economy of Bulgaria is an industrialised, open free market economy with a moderately advanced private sector and a number of strategic state-owned enterprises. Bulgaria is classified as an upper-middle-income country by the World Bank.
Military of Bulgaria: The Bulgarian Army represents the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commander-in-Chief is the President of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Defense is in charge of political leadership while military command remains in the hands of the General Staff, headed by the Chief of Staff. There are three main branches - the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force. Throughout the nation's history, the army has played an important role in defending the country's sovereignty.
Demographics of Burkina Faso: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Burkina Faso, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Burkina Faso's 15,3 million people belong to two major West African cultural groups--the Gur and the Mande. The Voltaic are far more numerous and include the Mossi, who make up about one-half of the population.
Politics of Burkina Faso: Politics of Burkina Faso takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Burkina Faso is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The party system is dominated by the Congress for Democracy and Progress. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Economy of Burkina Faso: Burkina Faso is one of the poorest countries in the world with an average income per capita of 250 (US$300). More than 80 percent of the population relies on subsistence agriculture, with only a small fraction directly involved in industry and services. Highly variable rainfall, poor soils, lack of adequate communications and other infrastructure, a low literacy rate, and a stagnant economy are all longstanding problems of this landlocked country.
Transport in Burkina Faso: This article concerns the systems of transport in Burkina Faso, which primarily include road and rail infrastructure.
Telecommunications in Burkina Faso: Communications in Burkina Faso are limited due to the low penetration of electricity, even in major cities. Use of telecommunications is extremely low. According to the International Telecommunication Union, in 2004 there were only 479,000 telephone subscribers in the country of nearly 11 million people, with .061 main lines per 1000 inhabitants. This number climbs to 42.05 main lines/1000 in Ouagadougou, but still a very low penetration rate.
Military of Burkina Faso: The branches of Burkina Faso's military include its Army, Air Force, National Gendarmerie, National Police, and People's Militia. Being a landlocked country, Burkina Faso has no navy.
Demographics of Burundi: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Burundi, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. At 206.1 persons per km. , Burundi has the second-largest population density in Sub-Saharan Africa. Most people live on farms near areas of fertile volcanic soil.
Foreign relations of Burkina Faso: Burkina Faso has good relations with the European Union, African, and Asian countries. France, the former colonial power, in particular, continues to provide significant aid and supports Compaor's developing role as a regional powerbroker. Burkina maintains diplomatic relations with the Republic of China (usually referred to as "Taiwan") instead of the People's Republic of China. According to the U.S. State Department, "U.S.
Geography of Burundi: Burundi is located in central Africa, to the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, at the co-ordinates 330S 300E; / ;3.5 30; / -3.5; 30.
Politics of Burundi: Politics of Burundi takes place in a framework of a transitional presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Burundi is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament, the Senate and the National Assembly.
Economy of Burundi: Burundi is a landlocked, resource-poor country with an underdeveloped manufacturing sector. The mainstay of the Burundian economy is agriculture, accounting for 58% of GDP in 1997. Agriculture supports more than 90% of the labour force, the majority of whom are subsistence farmers. Although Burundi is potentially self-sufficient in food production, the ongoing civil war, overpopulation, and soil erosion have contributed to the contraction of the subsistence economy by 25% in recent years.
Transport in Burundi: There are a number of systems of transport in Burundi, including road and water-based infrastructure, the latter of which makes use of Lake Tanganyika. Furthermore, there are also four airports in Burundi.
Military of Burundi: The Military of Burundi consists of the Army and the Gendarmerie. The naval and air units are incoporated within the Army.
Foreign relations of Burundi: Burundi's relations with its neighbours have often been affected by security concerns. Hundreds of thousands of Burundian refugees have at various times crossed to neighboring Rwanda, Tanzania, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Hundreds of thousands of Burundians are in neighboring countries as a result of the ongoing civil war. Most of them, more than 340,000 since 1993, are in Tanzania. Some Burundian rebel groups have used neighboring countries as bases for insurgent activities.
BE: BE, B.E.
Bell: Bell may refer to:
Bell Labs: Bell Laboratories (also known as Bell Labs and formerly known as AT&T Bell Laboratories and Bell Telephone Laboratories) is the research and development organization of Alcatel-Lucent and previously of the American Telephone & Telegraph Company (AT&T). Bell Laboratories operates its headquarters at Murray Hill, New Jersey, and has research and development facilities throughout the world.
Bjarne Stroustrup: Bjarne Stroustrup is a computer scientist, most notable for the creation and the development of the widely used C++ programming language. He is currently Professor and holder of the College of Engineering Chair in Computer Science at the Texas A&M University. Stroustrup began developing C++ in 1979 (then called "C with Classes"), and, in his own words, "invented C++, wrote its early definitions, and produced its first implementation...
Brussels: Brussels, officially the Brussels Region or Brussels-Capital Region, is the de facto capital city of the European Union (EU) and the largest urban area in Belgium. It comprises 19 municipalities, including the City of Brussels proper, which is the constitutional capital of Belgium, Flanders, the Flemish Community, and the French Community of Belgium.
Biotic: Biotic means relating to, produced by, or caused by living organisms. The term biotic may also refer to: Life, or ecosystem, the condition of living organisms, Biology, the study of life Biotic component in ecology, Biotic material, which is derived from living organisms, Biotic potential, an organism's reproductive capacity, or Biotic. ro, a new media agency established in Bucharest, Romania. Biotic Baking Brigade, an unofficial group of pie-throwing activists.
Brain: The brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate, and most invertebrate, animals. Some primitive animals such as jellyfish and starfish have a decentralized nervous system without a brain, while sponges lack any nervous system at all. In vertebrates, the brain is located in the head, protected by the skull and close to the primary sensory apparatus of vision, hearing, balance, taste, and smell. Brains can be extremely complex.
Byzantium: Byzantium was an ancient Greek city, founded by Greek colonists from Megara in 667 BC and named after their king Byzas . The name Byzantium is a Latinization of the original name Byzantion. The city was later renamed Constantinople and briefly became the imperial residence of the classical Roman Empire, and then subsequently was the capital of the Byzantine Empire, the Greek-speaking Roman Empire of late Antiquity and the Middle Ages.
Bass sound: Bass (as in base), when used as an adjective, is used to describe tones of low frequency or range. Played in an ensemble/orchestra, such notes are frequently used to provide a counterpoint or counter-melody, in a harmonic context either to outline or juxtapose the progression of the chords, or with percussion to underline the rhythm. In popular music the bass part most often provides harmonic and rhythmic support, usually playing the root or fifth of the chord and stressing the strong beats.
Burning glass: A burning glass or burning lens is a large convex lens that can concentrate the sun's rays onto a small area, heating up the area and thus resulting in ignition of the exposed surface. Burning mirrors achieve a similar effect by using reflecting surfaces to focus the light. They were used in 18th-century chemical studies for burning materials in closed glass vessels where the products of combustion could be trapped for analysis.
Berlin Wall: The Berlin Wall was a concrete barrier built by the German Democratic Republic that completely enclosed the city of West Berlin, separating it from East Germany, including East Berlin. The Wall included guard towers placed along large concrete walls, which circumscribed a wide area (later known as the "death strip") that contained anti-vehicle trenches, "fakir beds" and other defenses.
Bosphorus: The Bosphorus or Bosporus, also known as the Istanbul Strait, is a strait that forms part of the boundary between Europe and Asia. It is one of the Turkish Straits, along with the Dardanelles. The world's narrowest strait used for international navigation, it connects the Black Sea with the Sea of Marmara (which is connected by the Dardanelles to the Aegean Sea, and thereby to the Mediterranean Sea).
Battle of Adrianople disambiguation: Battle of Adrianople (378) was the main battle of the Gothic War (376-382). Battle of Adrianople may also refer to: Battle of Adrianople (324) - Constantine the Great defeats Licinius in a Roman civil war Siege of Adrianople (813) - Byzantine-Bulgarian Wars Battle of Adrianople (1205) - Fourth Crusade, the Bulgarians defeat the Crusaders Battle of Adrianople (1254) - Byzantine-Bulgarian Wars Battle of Adrianople (1365) - Capture by Ottoman Turks Battle of Adrianople (1913) - First Balkan War
Beacon: This page discusses beacons in general, which are often created by fires, lights or other means designed to attract attention. See also: Radio beacon, which are non-visual radio signals for navigational and other purposes. For other uses of the word, see Beacon. A beacon is an intentionally conspicuous device designed to attract attention to a specific location.
Beastie Boys: Beastie Boys are an American hip hop group from New York City. The group comprises Michael "Mike D" Diamond, Adam "MCA" Yauch, and Adam "Ad-Rock" Horovitz. Since around the time of the Hello Nasty album, the DJ for the group has been Michael "Mix Master Mike" Schwartz, who was first featured in the song "Three MCs and One DJ".
British Isles: The British Isles are a group of islands off the northwest coast of continental Europe that include Great Britain, Ireland and over six-thousand smaller islands. There are two sovereign states located on the islands: the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and Ireland. The British Isles also include the Crown Dependencies of the Isle of Man and, by tradition, the Channel Islands, although the latter are not physically a part of the island group.
Bhangra: Bhag is a form of music and dance that originated in the Punjab region of India and Pakistan. Bhangra dance began as a folk dance conducted by Punjabi farmers to celebrate the coming of Vaisakhi, a sikh festival. Bhangra can be related to Assam's Bihu which is associated with farming; as the traditional Assamese society is predominantly dependent on farming.
Bj rn Ulvaeus: Bjn Kristian Ulvaeus (born 25 April 1945) is a Swedish musician, composer, a former member of the Swedish musical group ABBA (1972-1982), and co-composer of the musicals Chess, Kristina fr Duvema, and Mamma Mia!. He has recently coproduced the film Mamma Mia! with ex-ABBA member and close-friend Benny Andersson. During the last years Bjn Ulvaeus has stepped forward as a frontline critic against the free file sharing of copyrighted material on the internet.
Benny Andersson: Gan Bror Benny Andersson (born in Stockholm, Sweden on 16 December 1946) is a Swedish musician, composer, a former member of the Swedish musical group ABBA (1972-1982), and co-composer of the musicals Chess, Kristina fr Duvema, and Mamma Mia!. He is currently active with his own band Benny Anderssons Orkester (BAO!), and recently was executive producer for the film version of the musical Mamma Mia!.
Bluetooth: Bluetooth is a proprietary open wireless protocol for exchanging data over short distances (using short length radio waves) from fixed and mobile devices, creating personal area networks (PANs). It was originally conceived as a wireless alternative to RS-232 data cables. It can connect several devices, overcoming problems of synchronization.
Bluetooth Special Interest Group: The Bluetooth Special Interest Group (SIG) is the body that oversees the development of Bluetooth standards and the licensing of the Bluetooth technologies and trademarks to manufacturers. Founded in 1998, it is a privately held trade association headquartered in Bellevue, Washington with Michael W. Foley (Mike) presently its executive director.
Britain: Britain may refer to: United Kingdom, a sovereign state Great Britain, an island to the northwest of Continental Europe Britain, Virginia, an unincorporated village in Loudoun County, Virginia, USA Britain (name), the place name Britain and its etymology
Boney M.: Boney M. is a disco group created by German record producer Frank Farian. Originally based in West Germany, the four original members of the group's official line-up were Jamaicans Liz Mitchell and Marcia Barrett, Montserratian Maizie Williams, and Aruban Bobby Farrell. The group was formed in 1975 and achieved immense popularity during the disco era of the late 1970s.
Basque language: Basque is the ancestral language of the Basque people, who inhabit the Basque Country, a region spanning an area in northeastern Spain and southwestern France. It is spoken by 25.7% of Basques in all territories (665,800 out of 2,589,600. Of these, 614,000 live in the Spanish part of the Basque country and the remaining 51,800 live in the French part.
Bourbon: Bourbon may refer to:
Bill Gates: William Henry "Bill" Gates III(born October 28, 1955) is an American business magnate, philanthropist, and chairman of Microsoft, the software company he founded with Paul Allen. He is consistently ranked among the world's wealthiest people and the wealthiest overall from 1995 to 2010, excluding 2007. During his career at Microsoft, Gates held the positions of CEO and chief software architect, and remains the largest individual shareholder with more than 8 percent of the common stock.
Blade Runner: Blade Runner is a 1982 American sci-fi film, directed by Ridley Scott and starring Harrison Ford, Rutger Hauer, and Sean Young. The screenplay, written by Hampton Fancher and David Peoples, is based loosely on the novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? by Philip K. Dick. The film depicts a dystopian Los Angeles in November 2019 in which genetically engineered beings called replicantsvisually indistinguishable from adult humansare manufactured by the all-powerful Tyrell Corporation.
Belgian Blue: Belgian Blue cattle are a beef breed from Belgium, known in French as Race de la Moyenne et Haute Belgique. Alternative names include Belgian Blue-White, Belgian White and Blue Pied, Belgian White Blue, Blue and Blue Belgian. The sculpted, heavily muscled appearance is known as "double muscling", and is a trait shared by the Piedmontese breed. They are named for their typically blue-grey mottled hair colour, although it can vary from white to black.
Boron: Boron is the chemical element with atomic number 5 and the chemical symbol B. Boron is a trivalent metalloid element which occurs abundantly in the evaporite ores borax and ulexite. Several allotropes of boron exist: amorphous boron is a brown powder; whereas crystalline boron is black, extremely hard (about 9.5 on Mohs' scale), and a poor conductor at room temperature.
Berkelium: Berkelium is a synthetic element with the symbol Bk and atomic number 97. A radioactive metallic element in the actinide series, berkelium was first synthesized by bombarding americium with alpha particles and was named for the University of California at Berkeley. Berkelium was the fifth transuranic element to be synthesized.
Barium: Barium is a chemical element. It has the symbol Ba, atomic number 56, and is the fifth element in Group 2. Barium is a soft silvery metallic alkaline earth metal. It is never found in nature in its pure form due to its reactivity with air. Its oxide is historically known as baryta but it reacts with water and carbon dioxide and is not found as a mineral. The most common naturally occurring minerals are the very insoluble barium sulfate, BaSO4, and barium carbonate, BaCO3.
Bauxite: Bauxite is the most important aluminium ore. This form of rock consists mostly of the minerals gibbsite Al(OH)3, boehmite -AlO(OH), and diaspore -AlO(OH), in a mixture with the two iron oxides goethite and hematite, the clay mineral kaolinite, and small amounts of anatase TiO2. Bauxite was named after the village Les Baux in southern France, where it was first recognized as containing aluminum and named by the Frence geologist Pierre Berthier in 1821.
Bromine: Bromine, is a chemical element with the symbol Br and atomic number 35. A halogen element, bromine is a reddish-brown volatile liquid at standard room temperature that is intermediate in reactivity between chlorine and iodine. Bromine vapors are corrosive and toxic. Approximately 556,000 metric tons were produced in 2007. The main applications for bromine are in fire retardants and fine chemicals.
Bundestag: The Bundestag is the parliament of Germany. It was established with Germany's constitution of 1949 and is the successor of the earlier Reichstag. Its current President is Norbert Lammert.
Bundesrat: Bundesrat means federal council and may refer to: Bundesrat of Germany Federal Council of Austria Swiss Federal Council
Brandenburg: Brandenburg is one of the sixteen states of Germany. It lies in the east of the country and is one of the new federal states that were re-created in 1990 upon the reunification of the former West Germany and East Germany. The capital is Potsdam. Brandenburg surrounds but does not include the national capital Berlin. Historically, Brandenburg was an independent state, the Margraviate of Brandenburg, which grew to become the core of independent Prussia and later the German state of Prussia.
Bisexual disambiguation: Bisexual can refer to: Bisexuality, in human sexuality, describes a man or woman that is sexually or romantically attracted to persons of both sexes A bisexual flower, in botany, one that possesses both male (pollen-producing) and female (seed-producing) parts; see Sexual reproduction in plants. Bisexual species, in biology, one that has members of two different distinct sexes (e.g. humans), opposed to unisexual (only one sex present, always females)
Bavaria: Bavaria, formally the Free State of Bavaria is a state of Germany, located in the southeast of the country. With an area of 70,548 square kilometres (27,200 sq mi) and almost 12.5 million inhabitants, it is the largest German state by area, forming almost 20% of the total land area of Germany. Its capital is Munich in Upper Bavaria. One of the oldest states of Europe, it was established as a duchy in the mid first millennium.
Bay disambiguation: A bay is an area of water bordered by land on three sides.
Book: A book is a set or collection of written, printed, illustrated, or blank sheets, made of paper, parchment, or other various material, usually fastened together to hinge at one side. A single sheet within a book is called a leaf, and each side of a leaf is called a page. A book produced in electronic format is known as an electronic book. Books may also refer to a literature work, or a main division of such a work.
BMW: Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW), is a German automobile, motorcycle and engine manufacturing company founded in 1916. It also owns and produces the MINI brand, and is the parent company of Rolls-Royce Motor Cars. BMW produces motorcycles under BMW Motorrad and Husqvarna brands. BMW is known for its performance and luxury vehicles.
Bornholm: Bornholm is a Danish island in the Baltic Sea located to the east of (most of) the rest of Denmark, the south of Sweden, and the north of Poland. The main industries on the island include fishing, arts and crafts like glass making and pottery using locally worked clay, and dairy farming. Tourism is important during the summer.
B52 disambiguation: B-52 or B52 may refer to: B-52 Stratofortress, a strategic bomber aircraft designed by Boeing a type of beehive hairstyle, named after the aircraft The B-52s, a rock band, named after the hairstyle named after the aircraft B-52 (cocktail), a cocktail shooter named after the aircraft Nora B-52, a Serbian 152 mm self-propelled howitzer B52 (New York City bus) in Brooklyn The Sicilian Defence in chess (Encyclopaedia of Chess Openings code) HLA-B52, an HLA-B serotype Bundesstrae 52, a German road
B: B is the second letter in the Latin alphabet. Its name in English is spelled bee, plural bees. It is used to represent a variety of bilabial sounds (depending on language), most commonly a voiced bilabial plosive.
Bal Thackeray: Bal Keshav Thackeray (born 23 January 1926), popularly known as Balasaheb Thackeray, is the founder and chief of the Shiv Sena, a Hindu nationalist, Marathi ethnocentric and populist party active mainly in the western Indian state of Maharashtra.
Bille August: Bille August (born November 9, 1948) is a Danish Academy Award winning film and television director. His film Pelle the Conqueror from 1987 won both the Palme D'or, Academy Award and Golden Globe. He is one of the very few directors to win the Palme D'or twice, winning the prestigious award again in 1991 for The Best Intentions, based on the autobiographical script by Ingmar Bergman. He was married to Swedish actress Pernilla August from 1991 to 1997.
Body: With regard to living things, a body is the physical body of an individual. "Body" often is used in connection with appearance, health issues and death. The study of the workings of the body is physiology.
Brassicaceae: Brassicaceae or Cruciferae, also known as the crucifers, the mustard family or cabbage family is a family of flowering plants. The name Brassicaceae is derived from the included genus Brassica. Cruciferae is an older name, meaning "cross-bearing", because the four petals of their flowers are reminiscent of a cross. According to ICBN Art. 18.5 (Vienna Code) both Cruciferae and Brassicaceae are regarded as validly published, and are thus accepted as names for the family.
Battle of Bosworth Field: The Battle of Bosworth Field was the penultimate battle of the Wars of the Roses, the civil war between the House of Lancaster and the House of York that raged across England in the latter half of the 15th century. Fought on 22 August 1485, the battle was won by the Lancastrians. Their leader Henry Tudor, Earl of Richmond, became the first English monarch of the Tudor dynasty by his victory and subsequent marriage to a Yorkist princess.
Books of the Bible: The Books of the Bible are listed differently in the canons of Judaism and the Catholic, Protestant, Greek Orthodox, Slavonic Orthodox, Georgian, Armenian Apostolic, Syriac and Ethiopian churches, although there is substantial overlap. A table comparing the canons of some of these traditions appears below, comparing the Jewish Bible with the Christian Old Testament and New Testament. For a detailed discussion of the differences, see "Biblical canon".
Bitola: Bitola (formerlyMonastir or Manastir; known also by several alternative names) is a city in the southwestern part of the Republic of Macedonia. The city is an administrative, cultural, industrial, commercial, and educational centre. It is located in the southern part of the Pelagonia valley, surrounded by the Baba and Nide mountains, 14 km north of the Meditlija-Nki border crossing with Greece.
Baseball statistics: Statistics play an important role in summarizing baseball performance and evaluating players in the sport. Since the flow of a baseball game has natural breaks to it, the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics. This makes comparisons between players' on-field performance relatively easy, and therefore gives statistics more importance in baseball than in some sports.
At bat: In baseball, an at bat (AB) or time at bat is used to calculate certain statistics, including batting average, on base percentage, and slugging percentage. It is a more restricted definition of a plate appearance. A batter starts with an at bat every time he faces a pitcher; however, the batter gets "no time at bat" in the following circumstances: He receives a base on balls (BB). He is hit by a pitch (HBP). He hits a sacrifice fly or a sacrifice hit (also known as sacrifice bunt).
Earned run: In baseball, an earned run is any run for which the pitcher is held accountable (i.e. , the run scored as a result of normal pitching, and not due to a fielding error or a passed ball). Any runner(s) who tags his base and reaches home plate is scored against the pitcher as an earned run(s). An error made by the pitcher in fielding at his position is counted the same as an error by any other player.
List of Major League Baseball Players with 4000 total bases: In baseball statistics, total bases refers to the number of bases a player has gained with hits, i.e. , the sum of his hits weighted by 1 for a single, 2 for a double, 3 for a triple and 4 for a home run. Only bases attained from hits count toward this total. Total bases can be calculated from commonly used baseball statistics by using the formula . Singles (1B) can be represented as which, when combined with the given TB formula, yields the simple formula found at the top of the page.
Base on balls: A base on balls (BB) is credited to a batter and against a pitcher in baseball statistics when a batter receives four pitches that the umpire calls balls. It is better known as a walk. The base on balls is defined in Section 2.00 of baseball's Official Rules, and further detail is given in 6.08(a).
Hit baseball: In baseball statistics, a hit (denoted by H), also called a base hit, is credited to a batter when the batter safely reaches first base after hitting the ball into fair territory, without the benefit of an error or a fielder's choice.
Hit by pitch: In baseball, hit by pitch (HBP), or hit batsman (HB), is a batter or his equipment (other than his bat) being hit in some part of his body by a pitch from the pitcher. Per baseball official rule 6.08(b), a batter becomes a baserunner and is awarded first base when he or his equipment (except for his bat): is touched by a pitched ball outside of the strike zone, and he attempts to avoid it (or had no opportunity to avoid it), and he did not swing at the pitch.
On-base percentage: In baseball statistics, on-base percentage (OBP) (sometimes referred to as on-base average, as the statistic is rarely presented as a true percentage) is a measure of how often a batter reaches base for any reason other than a fielding error, fielder's choice, dropped/uncaught third strike, fielder's obstruction, or catcher's interference (the latter two are ignored as either times-on-base or plate appearances in calculating OBP).
Sacrifice fly: In baseball, a sacrifice fly is a batted ball that satisfies four criteria: There are fewer than two outs when the ball is hit. The ball is hit to the outfield. The batter is out because an outfielder or an infielder running in the outfield catches the ball (or would have been out if not for an error). A runner who is already on base scores on the play.
On-base plus slugging: On-base plus slugging (OPS) is a sabermetric baseball statistic calculated as the sum of a player's on-base percentage and slugging percentage. The ability of a player to both get on base and to hit for power, two important hitting skills, are represented. This makes an especially effective way of measuring the player's offensive worth. An OPS of .900 or higher in Major League Baseball puts the player in the upper echelon of hitters.
Stolen base: In baseball, a stolen base occurs when a baserunner successfully advances to the next base while the pitcher is delivering the ball to home plate. In baseball statistics, stolen bases are denoted by SB. If, however, the defense makes no attempt to put the baserunner out (for example, if the catcher doesn't even look his way), the play is scored as "defensive indifference", and no stolen base is credited to the runner.
Games played: Games played (most often abbreviated as G or GP) is a statistic used in team sports to indicate the total number of games in which a player has participated (in any capacity); the statistic is generally applied irrespective of whatever portion of the game is contested.
Plate appearance: In baseball statistics, a player is credited with a plate appearance (denoted by PA) each time he completes a turn batting. A player completes a turn batting when: He strikes out or is declared out before reaching first base; or He reaches first base safely or is awarded first base; or He hits a fair ball which causes a preceding runner to be put out for the third out before he himself is put out or reaches first base safely
Boogie Down Productions: Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop group originally comprised KRS-One, D-Nice, and DJ Scott La Rock. DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on August 27, 1987, months after the release of BDP's debut album, Criminal Minded. The name of the group, Boogie Down, derives from a nickname for The cultural South Bronx, one of the five boroughs of New York City.
Binary-coded decimal: In computing and electronic systems, binary-coded decimal (BCD) (sometimes called natural binary-coded decimal, NBCD) is an encoding for decimal numbers in which each digit is represented by its own binary sequence. Its main virtue is that it allows easy conversion to decimal digits for printing or display, and allows faster decimal calculations. Its drawbacks are a small increase in the complexity of circuits needed to implement mathematical operations.
Binary: Binary means composed of two parts or two pieces. It contrasts with Unary, Ternary, Quaternary, and so on.
Bumin Khan: Bumin Khan was the founder of the Gtrk Empire. He is mentioned as "Tumen" () in the ancient Chinese sources. His name means "smoke cloud". Little is known about his life, and most of the information comes from legends in which he gathers a group of Turkic people living in a legendary place called Ergenekon located in the inaccessible valleys of the Altay Mountains. In 542 he put down a revolt of the Tiele tribes against their overlords the Rouran (Ruan-Ruan).
Beowulf: Beowulf is an Old English heroic epic poem of unknown authorship, dating as recorded in the Nowell Codex manuscript from between the 8th and the early 11th century, set in Denmark and Sweden. Commonly cited as one of the most important works of Anglo-Saxon literature, Beowulf has been the subject of much scholarly study, theory, speculation, discourse, and, at 3182 lines, has been noted for its length.
Barb Wire: Barb Wire was a superhero published by Comics Greatest World, an imprint of Dark Horse Comics. A regular series was published for 9 issues between 1994-1995, followed by a mini-series in 1998.
Bilge Khagan: Bilge Khaghan, Bilge Khan, Bilge Kaan or Piqie Khan (also Arslan Bilg Khaghan) (683 or 684 - 734), personal name Ashina Mojilian (), was one of the most powerful emperors of the Gtrk Empire. His accomplishments are immortalized in the Orkhon inscriptions. His name literally means "wise chieftain". In 716, he assumed the leadership together with his brother Kul Tigin after a coup against the previous ruler, his cousin Inal Khan who was a weak leader.
Bruce Sterling: Michael Bruce Sterling (born April 14, 1954) is an American science fiction author, best known for his novels and his work on the Mirrorshades anthology, which helped define the cyberpunk genre.
Blazing Saddles: Blazing Saddles is a 1974 satirical Western comedy film directed by Mel Brooks. Starring Cleavon Little and Gene Wilder, it was written by Brooks, Andrew Bergman, Richard Pryor, Norman Steinberg, and Al Uger, and was based on Bergman's story and draft. The movie was nominated for three Academy Awards, and is considered one of the great American comedies, coming in at number six on AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs list.
Bauhaus: Bauhaus ("House of Building" or "Building School") is the common term for the Staatliches Bauhaus, a school in Germany that combined crafts and the fine arts, and was famous for the approach to design that it publicized and taught. It operated from 1919 to 1933. The Bauhaus school was founded by Walter Gropius in Weimar. In spite of its name, and the fact that its founder was an architect, the Bauhaus did not have an architecture department during the first years of its existence.
Brain abscess: Brain abscess (or cerebral abscess) is an abscess caused by inflammation and collection of infected material, coming from local (ear infection, dental abscess, infection of paranasal sinuses, infection of the mastoid air cells of the temporal bone, epidural abscess) or remote infectious sources, within the brain tissue. The infection may also be introduced through a skull fracture following a head trauma or surgical procedures.
Bud Spencer: Bud Spencer (born Carlo Pedersoli on 31 October 1929) is an Italian actor, filmmaker, former swimmer (he was the first Italian to swim 100m in less than a minute). He is known for his height at 194 cm (6ft 4 1/2in) and his past roles in spaghetti westerns. Growing from a successful swimmer in his youth, he got a degree in law, and has registered several patents.
Brigitte Bardot: Brigitte Anne-Marie Bardot (pronounce "Bardoe") (born 28 September 1934) is a French animal rights activist and a former actress, fashion model, and singer. In her early life Bardot was an aspiring ballet dancer. She started her acting career in 1952 and after appearing in 16 films became world-famous due to her role in the controversial film And God Created Woman. During her career in show business Bardot starred in 48 films, performed in numerous musical shows, and recorded 80 songs.
Banjo: The banjo is a stringed instrument developed by enslaved Africans in Colonial America, adapted from several African instruments. The name banjo is commonly thought to be derived from the Kimbundu term mbanza. Some etymologists derive it from a dialectal pronunciation of "bandore" or from an early anglicisation of the Spanish word "bandurria", though other research suggests that it may come from a Senegambian term for a bamboo stick formerly used for the instrument's neck.
Baseball positions: There are 9 fielding positions in baseball. Each position conventionally has an associated number (from 1 to 9) which is used to score putouts. For example: If the third baseman fields a ball and throws it to first, it is recorded as a 5-3 out. A double play where the second baseman fields, throws to the shortstop at second base, who throws to the first baseman is recorded as a 4-6-3 double play.
Baseball: Baseball is a bat-and-ball sport played between two teams of nine players each. The goal is to score runs by hitting a thrown ball with a bat and touching a series of four bases arranged at the corners of a ninety-foot square, or diamond. Players on one team take turns hitting against the pitcher of the other team, which tries to stop them from scoring runs by getting hitters out in any of several ways.
History of baseball in the United States: The history of baseball in the United States can be traced to the 18th century, when amateurs played a baseball-like game by their own informal rules using improvised equipment. The popularity of the sport inspired the semi and fully professional baseball clubs in the 1860s.
Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award: The Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player Award (MVP) is an annual Major League Baseball (MLB) award given to one outstanding player in the American and National Leagues. Since 1931, it has been awarded by the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA). The winner receives the Kenesaw Mountain Landis Memorial Baseball Award, which is named in honor of the first MLB commissioner, who served from 1920 to 1944.
National League Championship Series: In Major League Baseball, the National League Championship Series (NLCS) is a round in the postseason that determines who wins the National League pennant and advances to Major League Baseball's championship, the World Series, facing the winner of the American League Championship Series. The reigning National League Champions are the Philadelphia Phillies. Prior to 1969, the National League champion was determined by the best win-loss record at the end of the regular season.
American League Championship Series: In Major League Baseball, the American League Championship Series (ALCS), played in October, is a round in the postseason that determines the winner of the American League pennant. The winner of the series advances to play the winner of the National League Championship Series in baseball's championship, the World Series. The reigning American League Champions are the New York Yankees. It began in 1969, when the American League was reorganized into two divisions, East and West.
Major League Baseball Rookie of the Year Award: In Major League Baseball, the Rookie of the Year Award is annually given to one player from each league as voted on by the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA). The award was established in 1940 by the Chicago chapter of the BBWAA, which selected an annual winner from 1940 through 1946. The award became national in 1947; Jackie Robinson, the Brooklyn Dodgers' first baseman, won the inaugural award.
National League Division Series: In Major League Baseball, the National League Division Series (NLDS) determine which two teams from the National League will advance to the National League Championship Series. The Division Series consist of two best-of-five series, featuring the three division winners and a wild-card team.
American League Division Series: In Major League Baseball, the American League Division Series (ALDS) determines which two teams from the American League will advance to the American League Championship Series. The Division Series consist of two concurrent best-of-five series, featuring the three division winners and a wild-card team (the non-division winning team with the best record).
2001 World Series: The 2001 World Series (the "November Series"), the 97th edition of Major League Baseball's championship series, took place between the Arizona Diamondbacks and the New York Yankees. The Diamondbacks won the best-of-seven series four games to three. The Series featured two extra-inning games and three late-inning comebacks. It ended on a Game 7 walk-off hit, in the form of a bloop single off the bat of Luis Gonzalez.
1903 World Series: The 1903 World Series, the first modern World Series to be played in Major League Baseball, matched the Boston American League club against the Pittsburgh Pirates in a best-of-nine series, with Boston prevailing five games to three, winning the last four. Pittsburgh pitcher Sam Leever injured his shoulder while trap-shooting, so his teammate Deacon Phillippe had to pitch five complete games for Pittsburgh.
Bruce Perens: Bruce Perens is a computer programmer and advocate in the open source community. He created the Open Source Definition and published the first formal announcement and manifesto of open source. He co-founded the Open Source Initiative with Eric S. Raymond. In 2005, Perens represented Open Source at the United Nations World Summit on the Information Society, at the invitation of the United Nations Development Program.
Bundle theory: Bundle theory, originated by the 18th century Scottish philosopher David Hume, is the ontological theory about objecthood in which an object consists only of a collection (bundle) of properties, relations or tropes.
Bernard Montgomery 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein: Field Marshal Bernard Law Montgomery, 1st Viscount Montgomery of Alamein, KG, GCB, DSO, PC (17 November 1887 - 24 March 1976), often referred to as "Monty", was an Anglo-Irish British Army officer. He successfully commanded Allied forces at the Battle of El Alamein, a major turning point in the Western Desert Campaign during World War II, and troops under his command played a major role in the expulsion of Axis forces from North Africa.
Herman Boerhaave: Herman Boerhaave (Voorhout, December 31, 1668 - Leiden, September 23, 1738) was a Dutch botanist, humanist and physician of European fame. He is regarded as the founder of clinical teaching and of the modern academic hospital. His main achievement was to demonstrate the relation of symptoms to lesions.
Bluetongue disease: Bluetongue disease or catarrhal fever is a non-contagious, insect-borne viral disease of ruminants, mainly sheep and less frequently of cattle, goats, buffalo, deer, dromedaries and antelope. It is caused by the Bluetongue virus. There are no reports of human transmission. Although the tongues of human patients with some types of heart disease may be blue, this sign is not related to bluetongue disease.
Benjamin Disraeli: Benjamin Disraeli, 1st Earl of Beaconsfield, KG, PC, FRS, (21 December 1804 - 19 April 1881) was a British Prime Minister, parliamentarian, Conservative statesman and literary figure. He served in government for three decades, twice as Prime Minister. A teenage convert to Anglicanism, he was nonetheless the country's first and thus far only Prime Minister of Jewish heritage. He played an instrumental role in the creation of the modern Conservative Party after the Corn Laws schism of 1846.
Biostatistics: Biostatistics (a portmanteau of the words biology and statistics; sometimes referred to as biometry or biometrics) is the application of statistics to a wide range of topics in biology. The science of biostatistics encompasses the design of biological experiments, especially in medicine and agriculture; the collection, summarization, and analysis of data from those experiments; and the interpretation of, and inference from, the results.
Binomial distribution: Also see: Negative binomial distribution. | kurtosis = | entropy = | mgf = | char = }} In probability theory and statistics, the binomial distribution is the discrete probability distribution of the number of successes in a sequence of n independent yes/no experiments, each of which yields success with probability p. Such a success/failure experiment is also called a Bernoulli experiment or Bernoulli trial. In fact, when n = 1, the binomial distribution is a Bernoulli distribution.
Lists of people: People denotes a group of humans, either with unspecified traits, or specific characteristics (e.g. the people of Spain or the people of the Plains). Lists of people include: (Fictional characters such as Batman are not included in these lists.)
List of major Biblical figures: A categorical and alphabetical list of people featured in the Bible. The Hebrew Bible is the Tanakh of Judaism. Judaism does not accept or use the term "Old Testament", nor does it recognize the deuterocanonical books or the New Testament of Christianity as canonical.
Business statistics: Business statistics is the science of good decision making in the face of uncertainty and is used in many disciplines such as financial analysis, econometrics, auditing, production and operations including services improvement, and marketing research. These sources feature regular repetitive publication of series of data. This makes the topic of time series especially important for business statistics.
British and Irish Lions: The British and Irish Lions (formerly known as the British Isles and the British Lions) is a rugby union team made up of players from England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales. The Lions generally select international players; they can pick uncapped players available to one of the four Home Unions, but in recent years this has rarely occurred. Combined rugby union sides from the then United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland toured in the Southern Hemisphere from 1888 onwards.
Basketball: Basketball is a team sport in which two teams of 5 players try to score points against one another by placing a ball through a 10 foot (3.048 m) high hoop (the goal) under organized rules. A regulation NBA basketball court is 94' long by 50' wide. Basketball is one of the most popular and widely viewed sports in the world. Points are scored by throwing (shooting) the ball through the basket from above.
Bass guitar: The bass guitar (as in "base") is a stringed instrument played primarily with the fingers or thumb (either by plucking, slapping, popping, tapping, or thumping), or by using a plectrum.
Blowfish disambiguation: The blowfish, or Tetraodontidae, is a fish in the Tetraodontidae family. Blowfish may also refer to: Blowfish (cipher), an encryption algorithm which is named after the fish Blowfish (newspaper), a satirical newspaper at Brandeis University Blowfish (company), American erotic goods supplier An unnamed race of Blowfish-like aliens, (and consistently described as such) from Torchwood Hootie & the Blowfish
Ball: A ball is a round object with various uses. It is usually spherical but can be ovoid. It is used in ball games, where the play of the game follows the state of the ball as it is hit, kicked or thrown by players. Balls can also be used for simpler activities, such as catch, marbles and juggling. Balls made from hard-wearing metal are used in engineering applications to provide very low friction bearings, known as ball bearings.
Braille: The Braille system is a method that is widely used by blind people to read and write. Braille was devised in 1821 by Louis Braille, a blind Frenchman. Each Braille character or cell is made up of six dot positions, arranged in a rectangle containing two columns of three dots each. A dot may be raised at any of the six positions to form sixty-four (2) possible subsets, including the arrangement in which no dots are raised.
Binary relation: In mathematics, a binary relation on a set A is a collection of ordered pairs of elements of A. In other words, it is a subset of the Cartesian product A = A A. More generally, a binary relation between two sets A and B is a subset of A B. The terms dyadic relation and 2-place relation are synonyms for binary relations.
Blowfish cipher: Blowfish is a keyed, symmetric block cipher, designed in 1993 by Bruce Schneier and included in a large number of cipher suites and encryption products. Blowfish provides a good encryption rate in software and no effective cryptanalysis of it has been found to date. However, the Advanced Encryption Standard now receives more attention.
Bastille Day: Bastille Day is the French national holiday, celebrated on 14 July each year. In France, it is formally called La Fte Nationale (National Celebration) and commonly le quatorze juillet (the fourteenth of July).
Bijection: In mathematics, a bijection, or a bijective function, is a function f from a set X to a set Y with the property that, for every y in Y, there is exactly one x in X such that f(x) = y and no unmapped element exists in either X or Y. Alternatively, f is bijective if it is a one-to-one correspondence between those sets; i.e. , both one-to-one and onto. (One-to-one function means one-to-one correspondence to some authors, but injection to others.
Blue Velvet film: Blue Velvet is a 1986 American mystery film written and directed by David Lynch, that exhibits elements of both film noir and surrealism. The film features Kyle MacLachlan, Isabella Rossellini, Dennis Hopper and Laura Dern. The title Blue Velvet is taken from the 1963 Bobby Vinton song of the same name. The film was decidedly acclaimed by critics, although initially detested by some mainstream critics. The film earned Lynch his second Academy Award nomination for Best Director.
Binary operation: In mathematics, a binary operation is a calculation involving two operands, in other words, an operation whose arity is two. Examples include the familiar arithmetic operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. More precisely, a binary operation on a set S is a ternary relation that maps elements of the Cartesian product S &times; S to S: If f is not a function, but is instead a partial function, it is called a partial operation.
Binary function: In mathematics, a binary function, or function of two variables, is a function which takes two inputs. Precisely stated, a function is binary if there exists sets such that where is the Cartesian product of and For example, if Z is the set of integers, N is the set of natural numbers (except for zero), and Q is the set of rational numbers, then division is a binary function from Z and N to Q.
Bagpipes: Bagpipes are a class of musical instrument, aerophones using enclosed reeds fed from a constant reservoir of air in the form of a bag. Though the Scottish Great Highland Bagpipe and Irish uilleann pipes have the greatest international visibility, bagpipes of many different types come from different regions throughout Europe, Northern Africa, the Persian Gulf, and the Caucasus.
Bedrock Records: Bedrock Records is an English record label for trance, house and techno started by Nick Muir and John Digweed. It is based around a club night in London also called Bedrock. Bedrock Records has released many singles from artists such as Astro & Glyde, Steve Lawler, Shmuel Flash, Steve Porter, Guy J, and Jerry Bonham. Bedrock is also the name that Digweed and Muir use as their production moniker.
Biochemistry: Biochemistry is the study of the chemical processes in living organisms. It deals with the structure and function of cellular components such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, nucleic acids and other biomolecules. Among the vast number of different biomolecules, many are complex and large molecules, which are composed of similar repeating subunits. Each class of polymeric biomolecule has a different set of subunit types.
Badminton: Badminton is a racquet sport played by either two opposing players (singles) or two opposing pairs (doubles), who take positions on opposite halves of a rectangular court that is divided by a net. Players score points by striking a shuttlecock with their racquet so that it passes over the net and lands in their opponents' half of the court. A rally ends once the shuttlecock has struck the ground, and each side may only strike the shuttlecock once before it passes over the net.
Baroque: Baroque is an artistic style prevalent from the late 16th century to the early 18th century. It is most often defined as "the dominant style of art in Europe between the Mannerist and Rococo eras, a style characterized by dynamic movement, overt emotion and self-confident rhetoric".
Banca d'Italia: Banca d'Italia is the central bank of Italy and part of the European System of Central Banks. It is located in Palazzo Koch, Roma, via Nazionale. The bank's current governor is Mario Draghi, who took the office on January 16, 2006.
Boolean algebra structure: In abstract algebra, a Boolean algebra or Boolean lattice is a complemented distributive lattice. This type of algebraic structure captures essential properties of both set operations and logic operations. A Boolean algebra can be seen as a generalization of a power set algebra or a field of sets.
British: British is the adjective and demonym associated with Great Britain and the United Kingdom. It may refer to:
Beachcomber pen name: Beachcomber was a nom de plume used by surrealist humorous columnists D. B. Wyndham-Lewis and, chiefly, J. B. Morton as authors of the Daily Express column "By the Way" in the period 1919-1975. Other authors who used the name were Major John Bernard Arbuthnot MVO, the column's founder, and William Hartston, the current author of its revived form.
Bill Joy: William Nelson Joy (born November 8, 1954), commonly known as Bill Joy, is an American computer scientist. Joy co-founded Sun Microsystems in 1982 along with Vinod Khosla, Scott McNealy, Andy Bechtolsheim and Vaughan Pratt, and served as chief scientist at the company until 2003. He is widely known for having written the essay "Why the future doesn't need us", where he expresses deep concerns over the development of modern technologies. He has two children, Hayden and Maddie.
Bandwidth signal processing: Bandwidth is typically measured in hertz, and may sometimes refer to passband bandwidth, sometimes to baseband bandwidth, depending on context. Passband bandwidth is the difference between the upper and lower cutoff frequencies of, for example, an electronic filter, a communication channel, or a signal spectrum. In case of a lowpass filter or baseband signal, the bandwidth is equal to its upper cutoff frequency. The term baseband bandwidth refers to the upper cutoff frequency.
Buckingham Palace: Buckingham Palace is the official London residence of the British monarch. Located in the City of Westminster, the palace is a setting for state occasions and royal hospitality. It has been a rallying point for the British people at times of national rejoicing and crisis. Originally known as Buckingham House, the building which forms the core of today's palace was a large townhouse built for the Duke of Buckingham in 1703 on a site which had been in private ownership for at least 150 years.
Bicycle: A bicycle, also known as a bike, push bike or cycle, is a pedal-driven, human-powered, single-track vehicle, having two wheels attached to a frame, one behind the other. A person who rides a bicycle is called a cyclist or a bicyclist. Bicycles were introduced in the 19th century and now number about one billion worldwide, twice as many as automobiles. They are the principal means of transportation in many regions.
Biopolymer: Biopolymers are polymers produced by living organisms. Cellulose, starch and chitin, proteins and peptides, and DNA and RNA are all examples of biopolymers, in which the monomeric units, respectively, are sugars, amino acids, and nucleotides. Cellulose is both the most common biopolymer and the most common organic compound on Earth. About 33 percent of all plant matter is cellulose (the cellulose content of cotton is 90 percent and that of wood is 50 percent)
British Airways: British Airways plc or BA is the flag carrier airline of the United Kingdom. BA has its headquarters in Waterside near its main hub at London Heathrow Airport and is the largest airline in the UK based on fleet size, international flights and international destinations. Its second hub is London Gatwick Airport. British Airways has discontinued all direct overseas flights from UK airports other than Heathrow, Gatwick and London City Airport.
Baptist: Baptists are a group of Christian denominations, churches, and individuals who subscribe to a theology of believer's baptism (as opposed to infant baptism), salvation through faith alone, Scripture alone as the rule of faith and practice, and the autonomy of the local church. They are generally characterized by the practice of immersion (as opposed to affusion or sprinkling) and a disavowal of authoritative creeds.
United Kingdom general election 2001: The UK general election, 2001 was held on 7 June 2001 and was dubbed "the quiet landslide" by the media. There was little change at all - outside Northern Ireland - with 620 out of 641 seats remaining unchanged. Labour enjoyed its second so-called 'landslide victory' in a row, maintaining its position from the previous election. Tony Blair became the first Labour prime minister to win enough seats to have a full second consecutive term in office.
Bicarbonate: In inorganic chemistry, bicarbonate is an intermediate form in the deprotonation of carbonic acid. Its chemical formula is HCO3. Bicarbonate serves a crucial biochemical role in the physiological pH buffering system.
Book of Mormon: The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement. It was first published in March 1830 by Joseph Smith, Jr. as The Book of Mormon: An Account Written by the Hand of Mormon upon Plates Taken from the Plates of Nephi. According to Smith's account, and written in the book itself, it was originally written in otherwise unknown characters referred to as "reformed Egyptian" on golden plates.
Blackjack: Blackjack, also known as Twenty-one, Vingt-et-un, or Pontoon, is the most widely played casino banking game in the world. The standard game is played with one or more Anglo-American decks containing 52 cards. The basic rules of the game involve adding the value of an initial two card hand in hopes of being dealt a value of twenty-one.
Bernie Federko: Bernard Allan Federko (born May 12, 1956 in Foam Lake, Saskatchewan, Canada) is a retired professional ice hockey centre who played fourteen seasons in the NHL from 1976 through 1990.
Banach space: In mathematics, Banach spaces are one of the central objects of study in functional analysis. Many of the infinite-dimensional function spaces studied in analysis are Banach spaces, including spaces of continuous functions, spaces of Lebesgue integrable functions known as L spaces, and spaces of holomorphic functions known as Hardy spaces. They are the most commonly used topological vector spaces, and their topology comes from a norm.
Buffalo New York: Buffalo is the second most populous city in the state of New York, second only to New York City. Located in Western New York on the eastern shores of Lake Erie and at the head of the Niagara River, Buffalo is the principal city of the Buffalo-Niagara Falls metropolitan area and the seat of Erie County. The city itself has a population of 292,648 (2000 Census). The Buffalo-Niagara-Cattaraugus Combined Statistical Area is home to 1,254,066 residents.
Bodhisattva: In Buddhism, a bodhisattva means either "enlightened existence" or "enlightenment-being" or, given the variant Sanskrit spelling satva rather than sattva, "heroic-minded one for enlightenment. " Another translation is "Wisdom-Being. " It is the name given to anyone who, motivated by great compassion, has generated bodhicitta, which is a spontaneous wish to attain Buddhahood for the benefit of all living beings.
Benjamin Franklin: Benjamin Franklin (January 17, 1706 - April 17, 1790) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States of America. A noted polymath, Franklin was a leading author and printer, satirist, political theorist, politician, scientist, inventor, civic activist, statesman, soldier, and diplomat. As a scientist, he was a major figure in the Enlightenment and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories regarding electricity.
Billion: Billion may refer to: In numbers: Long and short scales 1,000,000,000,000 (number), one million million, 10, in the long scale 1,000,000,000 (number), one thousand million, 10, in the short scale In other usage: Billion (company), a modem manufacturer Billion Girl, a shjo manga series Golden billion, a Russian term for the wealthy people of the developed world Jack Billion (born 1939), the 2006 Democratic Party candidate for governor of South Dakota
Boat: A boat is a watercraft of modest size designed to float or plane, to provide passage across water. Usually this water will be inland or in protected coastal areas. However, boats such as the whaleboat were designed to be operated from a ship in an offshore environment. In naval terms, a boat is something small enough to be carried aboard another vessel (a ship). Strictly speaking and uniquely a submarine is a boat as defined by the Royal Navy.
Beno t Mandelbrot: Benot B. Mandelbrot (born 20 November 1924) is a French and American mathematician, best known as the father of fractal geometry. He is Sterling Professor of Mathematical Sciences, Emeritus at Yale University; IBM Fellow Emeritus at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center; and Battelle Fellow at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. Mandelbrot was born in Poland. His family moved to France when he was a child, and he was educated in France. He is a dual French and American citizen.
Bram Stoker: Abraham "Bram" Stoker (8 November 1847 - 20 April 1912) was an Irish novelist and short story writer, best known today for his 1897 Gothic novel Dracula. During his lifetime, he was better known as the personal assistant of actor Henry Irving and business manager of the Lyceum Theatre in London, which Irving owned.
Contract bridge: Contract bridge, usually known simply as bridge, is a trick-taking card game of skill and chance (the relative proportions depending on the variant played). It is played by four players who form two partnerships; the partners sit opposite each other at a table. The game consists of the auction (often called bidding) and play, after which the hand is scored.
BSoD disambiguation: BSoD is the abbreviation for Black Screen of Death - a failure mode of Windows 3. x and a system or application error screen in OS/2 Blue Screen of Death - a system error screen in all versions of Microsoft Windows
Blood: Blood is a specialized bodily fluid that delivers necessary substances to the body's cells - such as nutrients and oxygen - and transports waste products away from those same cells. In vertebrates, it is composed of blood cells suspended in a liquid called blood plasma.
Benedict of Nursia: Benedict of Nursia (480 - 547) Benedict founded twelve communities for monks at Subiaco, about 40 miles to the east of Rome, before moving to Monte Cassino in the mountains of southern Italy. There is no evidence that he intended to found a religious order. The Order of St Benedict is of modern origin and, moreover, not an "order" as commonly understood but merely a confederation of autonomous congregations. Benedict's main achievement is his "Rule", containing precepts for his monks.
Battle of Pharsalus: The Battle of Pharsalus was a decisive battle of Caesar's Civil War. On 9 August 48 BC at Pharsalus in central Greece, Gaius Julius Caesar and his allies formed up opposite the army of the republic under the command of Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus ("Pompey the Great"). Pompey had the backing of a majority of senators, of whom many were optimates, and his army significantly outnumbered the veteran Caesarian legions.
Bigfoot: Bigfoot, also known as Sasquatch, is an alleged ape-like creature purportedly inhabiting forests, mainly in the Pacific Northwest region of North America. Bigfoot is usually described as a large, hairy, bipedal humanoid. The scientific community considers Bigfoot to be a combination of folklore, misidentification, and hoaxes, rather than a real creature.
Bing Crosby: Harry Lillis "Bing" Crosby (May 3, 1903 - October 14, 1977) was a popular American singer and actor whose career stretched over more than half a century from 1926 until his death. Crosby was the best-selling recording artist until well into the rock era, with over half a billion records in circulation. One of the first multimedia stars, from 1934 to 1954 Bing Crosby held a nearly unrivaled command of record sales, radio ratings and motion picture grosses.
Basel Convention: The Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal, usually known simply as the Basel Convention, is an international treaty that was designed to reduce the movements of hazardous waste between nations, and specifically to prevent transfer of hazardous waste from developed to less developed countries (LDCs). It does not, however, address the movement of radioactive waste.
Bar Kokhba album: Bar Kokhba is a double album by John Zorn, recorded between 1994 and 1996. It features music from Zorn's Masada project, rearranged for small ensembles.
BASIC: In computer programming, BASIC (an acronym for Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code) is a family of high-level programming languages. The original BASIC was designed in 1964 by John George Kemeny and Thomas Eugene Kurtz at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire, USA to provide computer access to non-science students. At the time, nearly all use of computers required writing custom software, which was something only scientists and mathematicians tended to be able to do.
List of Byzantine emperors: This is a list of the Emperors of the Eastern Roman Empire, commonly known as the Byzantine Empire by modern historians. This list does not include numerous co-emperors who never attained sole or senior status as rulers. This list begins with Constantine I the Great, the first Christian emperor reigning from Constantinople. Diocletian before him had ruled from Nicomedia and replaced the republican trappings of the office with a straightforward autocracy.
Bismarck: Bismarck may refer to:
Butterfly effect: The butterfly effect is a metaphor that encapsulates the concept of sensitive dependence on initial conditions in chaos theory; namely that small differences in the initial condition of a dynamical system may produce large variations in the long term behavior of the system.
Borland: Borland Software Corporation is a software company headquartered in Austin, Texas. It is a Micro Focus company. It was founded in 1983 by Niels Jensen, Ole Henriksen, Mogens Glad and Philippe Kahn. In February 2006, Borland announced its intent to divest its IDE business, known as the Developer Tools Group, to allow Borland to be completely focused on the enterprise and driving its Application Lifecycle Management (ALM) business forward.
Buckminster Fuller: Richard Buckminster Bucky Fuller (July 12, 1895 - July 1, 1983) was an American architect, author, designer, inventor, and futurist. Fuller published more than thirty books, inventing and popularizing terms such as "Spaceship Earth", ephemeralization, and synergetics. He also developed numerous inventions, mainly architectural designs, the best known of which is the geodesic dome.
Bill Watterson: William B. "Bill" Watterson II (born July 5, 1958) is an American cartoonist and the author of the influential and popular comic strip Calvin and Hobbes. His career as a syndicated cartoonist ran from 1985 to 1995; he retired at the end of 1995 with a short statement to newspaper editors and his fans that he felt he had achieved all he could in the comic strip medium.
Black: Black is the color of objects that do not emit or reflect light in any part of the visible spectrum; they absorb all such frequencies of light. Although black is sometimes described as an "achromatic", or hueless, color, in practice it can be considered a color, as in expressions like "black cat" or "black paint".
Bletchley Park: Bletchley Park, also known as Station X, is an estate located in the town of Bletchley, in Buckinghamshire, England. During World War II, Bletchley Park was the site of the United Kingdom's main decryption establishment, the Government Code and Cypher School. Ciphers and codes of several Axis countries were decrypted there, most importantly ciphers generated by the German Enigma and Lorenz machines.
Bede: Bede, also referred to as Saint Bede or the Venerable Bede, was a monk at the Northumbrian monastery of Saint Peter at Monkwearmouth, today part of Sunderland, England, and of its companion monastery, Saint Paul's, in modern Jarrow, both in the Kingdom of Northumbria. He is well known as an author and scholar, and his most famous work, Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum (The Ecclesiastical History of the English People) gained him the title "The Father of English History".
Battle of Blenheim: The Battle of Blenheim (referred to in some countries as the Second Battle of Hhstt), fought on 13 August 1704, was a major battle of the War of the Spanish Succession. Louis XIV of France sought to knock Emperor Leopold out of the war by seizing Vienna, the Habsburg capital, and gain a favourable peace settlement.
Battle of Ramillies: The Battle of Ramillies was a major engagement of the War of the Spanish Succession fought on 23 May 1706.
Bubble tea: Bubble tea is a sweetly flavored tea beverage invented in Taiwan. Drink recipes may vary, but most bubble teas contain a tea base mixed with fruit (or fruit syrup) and/or milk and also contains tapioca balls. These teas are shaken to mix the ingredients and the "bubble" moniker refers to both the foam formed in this process and the tapioca balls added to the drink.
BCPL: BCPL (Basic Combined Programming Language) is a computer programming language designed by Martin Richards of the University of Cambridge in 1966.
Brian Kernighan: Brian Wilson Kernighan (the 'g' is silent), is a computer scientist who worked at Bell Labs alongside Unix creators Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie and contributed greatly to Unix and its school of thought. He is also coauthor of the AWK and AMPL programming languages. The 'K' of K&R C and the 'K' in AWK both stand for 'Kernighan'.
Bifr st: In Norse mythology, Bifrt or Bilrt is a burning rainbow bridge between Midgard, the world, and Asgard, the realm of the gods. The bridge is attested as Bilrt in the Poetic Edda; compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and as Bifrt in the Prose Edda; written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson, and in the poetry of skalds. Both the Poetic Edda and the Prose Edda alternately refer to the bridge as Asbr.
Battlecruiser: Battlecruisers (sometimes two words as battle cruisers) were large warships in the first half of the 20th century that were first introduced by the Royal Navy. The battlecruiser was developed as the successor to the armoured cruisers, but their evolution was more closely linked to that of the dreadnought battleships. The first such ship, the Invincible, was originally designated a "dreadnought cruiser".
Bob Hawke: Robert James Lee "Bob" Hawke, AC (born 9 December 1929) was the 23rd Prime Minister of Australia and longest serving Australian Labor Party Prime Minister. After a decade as president of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, he entered politics at the 1980 election and became Prime Minister within three years. He became by far the longest-serving and most electorally successful Labor Prime Minister, achieving the rare feat of winning four consecutive federal elections.
Battleship: A battleship is a large armored warship with a main battery consisting of heavy caliber guns. Battleships were larger, better armed and armored than cruisers and destroyers. As the largest armed ships in a fleet, battleships were used to attain command of the sea and represented the apex of a nation's naval power from the nineteenth century up until World War II.
Baldr: Baldr (also Balder, Baldur) is a god in Norse mythology associated with light, beauty, love and happiness. In the 12th century, Danish accounts by Saxo Grammaticus and other Danish Latin chroniclers recorded a euhemerized account of his story. Compiled in Iceland in the 13th century, but based on much older Old Norse poetry, the Poetic Edda and the Prose Edda contain numerous references to the death of Baldr as both a great tragedy to the ir and a harbinger of Ragnar.
Bilskirnir: Bilskirnir is the hall of the god Thor in Norse mythology. Here he lives with his wife Sif and their children. According to Grmnism, the hall is the greatest of buildings and contains 540 rooms, located in Asgard, as are all the dwellings of the gods, in the kingdom of reimr.
Breidablik: In Norse mythology, Breiblik (Broad-gleaming) is the home of Baldr. It is briefly described in Snorri Sturluson's Gylfaginning as one of the places in heaven: "Then there is also in that place the abode called Breidablik, and there is not in heaven a fairer dwelling.
Br singamen: In Norse mythology, Brsingamen (from Old Norse brisinga "flaming, glowing" and men "jewellery, ornament") is the necklace of the goddess Freyja.
Bragi: Bragi is a skaldic god in Norse mythology.
Borsuk Ulam theorem: In mathematics, the Borsuk-Ulam theorem states that any continuous function from an n-sphere into Euclidean n-space maps some pair of antipodal points to the same point. (Two points on a sphere are called antipodal if they are in exactly opposite directions from the sphere's center. ) The case n = 2 is often illustrated by saying that at any moment there is always a pair of antipodal points on the Earth's surface with equal temperatures and equal barometric pressures.
Blaise Pascal: Blaise Pascal, (June 19, 1623, Clermont-Ferrand - August 19, 1662, Paris) was a French mathematician, physicist, and Catholic philosopher. He was a child prodigy who was educated by his father, a civil servant. Pascal's earliest work was in the natural and applied sciences where he made important contributions to the construction of mechanical calculators, the study of fluids, and clarified the concepts of pressure and vacuum by generalizing the work of Evangelista Torricelli.
Bronski Beat: Bronski Beat was a popular British synth pop trio who achieved notable success in the mid 1980s, particularly with the 1984 chart hit "Smalltown Boy". All members of the group were openly gay and their songs often contained political commentary on gay related issues. Although many groups in the early to mid 80s had an openly gay image, Bronski Beat was one of the first groups to address the issues of gay people.
Brythonic languages: The Brythonic languages (or Brittonic languages or British languages) form one of the two branches of the Insular Celtic language family, the other being Goidelic. The name Brythonic was derived by Welsh Celticist John Rhys from the Welsh word Brython, meaning an indigenous Briton as opposed to an Anglo-Saxon or Gael. The name Brittonic derives ultimately from the name Prettanic recorded by Greek authors for the British Isles.
National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum: The National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum is an American history museum and hall of fame, located at 25 Main Street in Cooperstown, New York, operated by private interests serving as the central point for the study of the history of baseball in the United States and beyond, the display of baseball-related artifacts and exhibits, and the honoring of persons who have excelled in playing, managing, and serving the sport.
BPP: In computational complexity theory, BPP (which stands for bounded-error probabilistic polynomial time) is the class of decision problems solvable by a probabilistic Turing machine in polynomial time, with an error probability of at most 1/3 for all instances.
Binary prefix: In computing, a binary prefix is a specifier or mnemonic that is prepended to the units of digital information, the bit and the byte, to indicate multiplication by a power of 2. In practice the powers used are mostly multiples of 10, so the prefixes denote powers of 1024 = 2. The computer industry uses terms such as "kilobyte," "megabyte," and "gigabyte," and corresponding abbreviations "KB", "MB", and "GB", in two different ways.
BQP: In computational complexity theory BQP (bounded error quantum polynomial time) is the class of decision problems solvable by a quantum computer in polynomial time, with an error probability of at most 1/3 for all instances. It is the quantum analogue of the complexity class BPP. In other words, there is an algorithm for a quantum computer that solves the decision problem with high probability and is guaranteed to run in polynomial time.
Blog disambiguation: Blog may also refer to: *Blog 27, a Polish musical group fronted by Tola Szlagowska Alcohol, in science-fiction-fandom slang BladeLogic, a software company with stock ticker BLOG B.L.O.G. , a 2009 album by rhythm and blues singer, Kandi Burruss
Brainfuck: The brainfuck programming language is an esoteric programming language noted for its extreme minimalism. It is a Turing tarpit, designed to challenge and amuse programmers, and is not suitable for practical use. Its name has been variously bowdlerized. The name of the language is generally not capitalized, although it is a proper noun.
Binary and: If two conditions are combined by and, they must both be true for the compound condition to be true as well. Likewise, two bits may be combined with and: x y x AND y I.e. the result is 1, if both x and y are 1, and 0 otherwise. If 0 is equated with false, and 1 with true the bit and operation works like our logical and. Binary and can work on binary numbers of any size, the numbers are simply anded digit by digit.
Bertrand Andrieu: Bertrand Andrieu (November 4, 1761 - December 10, 1822) was a French engraver of medals from Bordeaux. In France he was considered as the restorer of the art, which had declined after the time of Louis XIV, and during the last twenty years of his life the French government commissiond him to undertake several works. Many of his medals are figured in the Medallic History of Napoleon.
Bartolomeo Ammanati: Bartolomeo Ammanati (June 18, 1511 - April 13, 1592) was a Florentine architect and sculptor, born at Settignano, near Florence. He studied under Baccio Bandinelli and Jacopo Sansovino (assisting on the Library of St. Mark's, the Biblioteca Marciana, Venice) and closely imitated the style of Michelangelo. He was more distinguished in architecture than in sculpture. He designed many buildings in Rome, which included work at the Villa Giulia complex, also at Lucca and Florence.
Bishop: A bishop is an ordained or consecrated member of the Christian clergy who is generally entrusted with a position of authority and oversight. Within the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox Churches, in the Assyrian Church of the East, in the Independent Catholic Churches, and in the Anglican churches, bishops claim Apostolic succession, a direct historical lineage dating back to the original Twelve Apostles.
Puzzle Bobble: Puzzle Bobble, also known as Bust-a-Move, is a 1994 arcade puzzle game (for 1 or 2 players) created by Taito Corporation. It is a simple game based on Taito's popular 1986 arcade game Bubble Bobble, featuring characters and themes from the original. The game's characteristically "cute" Japanese animation and music, along with its well-balanced mechanics and level design, proved successful in arcades and spawned several sequels and ports to home gaming systems.
Bone: Bones are rigid organs that form part of the endoskeleton of vertebrates. They function to move, support, and protect the various organs of the body, produce red and white blood cells and store minerals. Bone tissue is a type of dense connective tissue. Because bones come in a variety of shapes and have a complex internal and external structure they are lightweight, yet strong and hard, in addition to fulfilling their many other functions.
Bordeaux: Bordeaux is a port city on the Garonne River in southwest France, with one million inhabitants in its metropolitan area at a 2008 estimate. It is the capital of the Aquitaine region, as well as the prefecture of the Gironde department. Its inhabitants are called Bordelais. The Bordeaux-Arcachon-Libourne metropolitan area, has a population of 1,010,000 and constitutes one of the largest urban areas of France. The city is among the world's major wine industry centres.
Bretwalda: Bretwalda, also brytenwalda and bretenanwealda, is an Anglo-Saxon word, the first record of which comes from the late 9th century Anglo-Saxon Chronicle. It is applied in the Chronicle to some of the rulers of Anglo-Saxon kingdoms from the fifth century onwards who had achieved overlordship of some or all of the other Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. It is unclear whether the word dates back to the fifth century, and was used by the kings themselves, or whether it is a later, ninth-century invention.
Benzoic acid: Benzoic acid, C7H6O2 (or C6H5COOH), is a colorless crystalline solid and the simplest aromatic carboxylic acid. The name derived from gum benzoin, which was for a long time the only source for benzoic acid. This weak acid and its salts are used as a food preservative. Benzoic acid is an important precursor for the synthesis of many other organic substances.
Brouwer fixed point theorem: Brouwer's fixed point theorem is a fixed point theorem in topology, named after Luitzen Brouwer. It states that for any continuous function f with certain properties there is a point x0 such that f(x0) = x0. The simplest form of Brouwer's theorem is for continuous functions f from a disk D to itself. A more general form is for continuous functions from a convex compact subset K of Euclidean space to itself.
Leg theory: Leg theory is a bowling tactic in the sport of cricket. The term leg theory is somewhat archaic and seldom used any more, but the basic tactic still plays a part in modern cricket. Simply put, leg theory involves concentrating the bowling attack at or near the line of leg stump. This may or may not be accompanied by a concentration of fielders on the leg side. The line of attack aims to cramp the batsman, making him play the ball with the bat close to the body.
Boltzmann distribution: In physics and mathematics, the Boltzmann distribution is a certain distribution function or probability measure for the distribution of the states of a system. It underpins the concept of the canonical ensemble, providing its underlying distribution. A special case of the Boltzmann distribution, used for describing the velocities of particles of a gas, is the Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution. In more general mathematical settings, the Boltzmann distribution is also known as the Gibbs measure.
Bioleaching: Bioleaching is the extraction of specific metals from their ores through the use of bacteria. This is much cleaner than the tradtitional heap leaching using cyanide. Bioleaching is one of several applications within biohydrometallurgy and several methods are used to recover copper, zinc, lead, arsenic, antimony, nickel, molybdenum, gold, and cobalt.
Bouldering: Bouldering is a style of rock climbing undertaken without a rope and normally limited to very short climbs over a crash pad so that a fall will not result in serious injury. It is typically practiced on large natural boulders or artificial boulders in gyms and outdoor urban areas. However, it may also be practiced at the base of larger rock faces, or even on buildings or public architecture.
Boiling point: The boiling point of an element or a substance is the temperature at which the vapor pressure of the liquid equals the environmental pressure surrounding the liquid. A liquid in a vacuum environment has a lower boiling point than when the liquid is at atmospheric pressure. A liquid in a high pressure environment has a higher boiling point than when the liquid is at atmospheric pressure.
Blythe Danner: Blythe Katharine Danner (born February 3, 1943) is an American actress. She is the mother of actress Gwyneth Paltrow and director Jake Paltrow.
Bantu peoples: Bantu is a large category of African languages. It also is used as a general label for over 400 ethnic groups in Sub-Saharan Africa, from Cameroon across Central Africa and Eastern Africa to Southern Africa. These peoples share a common language family sub-group, the Bantu languages, and broad ancestral culture, but Bantu languages as a whole are as diverse as Indo-European languages.
Bock: Bock is a type of strong lager beer, first brewed in the 14th century in the Hanseatic town of Einbeck, Germany, from which it gets its name (originally "Einbeck" / "Einbock"). The original Bocks were dark beers, brewed from high-colored malts. Modern Bocks can be dark, amber or pale in color. Bock was traditionally brewed for special occasions, often religious festivals such as Christmas, Easter or Lent. Bocks have a long history of being brewed and consumed by Roman Catholic monks in Germany.
Bantu languages: The Bantu languages (technically Narrow Bantu languages) constitute a grouping belonging to the Niger-Congo family. This grouping is deep down in the genealogical tree of the Bantoid grouping, which in turn is deep down in the Niger-Congo tree. By one estimate, there are 513 languages in the Bantu grouping, 681 languages in Bantoid, and 1,514 in Niger-Congo. Bantu languages are spoken largely east and south of the present day country of Nigeria; i.e.
Bearing: Bearing may refer to: Bearing (navigation), a term for direction Bearing (mechanical), a component that separates moving parts and takes a load
Big Bang: The Big Bang is the cosmological model of the initial conditions and subsequent development of the Universe that is supported by the most comprehensive and accurate explanations from current scientific evidence and observation.
CIM-10 Bomarc: The CIM-10 Bomarc (originally IM-99) was the product of the Bomarc Missile Program. The Program was a joint United States of America-Canada effort between 1957 and 1972 to protect against the USSR bomber threat. The Bomarc was a joint development with Boeing and Michigan Aeronautical Research Center. It involved the deployment of tactical stations armed with Bomarc missiles along the east and west coasts of North America and the central areas of the continent.
Bulgarian language: Bulgarian is an Indo-European language, a member of the Slavic linguistic group. Bulgarian demonstrates several linguistic innovations that set it apart from all other Slavic languages except the Macedonian language, such as the elimination of case declension, the development of a suffixed definite article, the lack of a verb infinitive, and the retention and further development of the proto-Slavic verb system. Various verb forms exist to express unwitnessed, retold, and doubtful action.
Bus: A bus (archaically also omnibus, multibus, or autobus) is a road vehicle designed to carry passengers. Buses vary in capacity from 8 to 300 passengers. Buses are widely used public transportation. The most common type of bus is the single-decker bus, with larger loads carried by double-decker buses and articulated buses, and smaller loads carried by midibuses and minibuses. A luxury, long distance bus is called a coach.
Branco River: The Rio Branco (engl. White river) is the principal affluent of the Rio Negro (engl. Black river) from the north; it is enriched by many streams from the sierras which separate Venezuela and Guyana from Brazil. Its two upper main tributaries are the Urariquira and the Takutu. The latter almost links its sources with those of the Essequibo. The Branco flows nearly south, and finds its way into the Negro through several channels and a chain of lagoons similar to those of the latter river.
Beast of Bodmin: The Beast of Bodmin, like The Beast of Exmoor, is a phantom wild cat which is purported to range in Cornwall in the United Kingdom. Bodmin Moor became a centre of these sightings with occasional reports of mutilated slain livestock: the alleged panther-like cats of the same region came to be popularly known as the Beast of Bodmin Moor.
Bipyramid: An n-gonal bipyramid or dipyramid is a polyhedron formed by joining an n-gonal pyramid and its mirror image base-to-base. The referenced n-gon in the name of the bipyramids is not an external face but an internal one, existing on the primary symmetry plane which connects the two pyramid halves. The face-transitive bipyramids are the dual polyhedra of the uniform prisms and will generally have isosceles triangle faces.
Bali: Bali is an Indonesian island located at Coordinates: 82523S 1151455E; / ;8.42306 115.24861; / -8.42306; 115.24861the westernmost of the Lesser Sunda Islands, lying between Java to the west and Lombok to the east. It is one of the country's 33 provinces with the provincial capital at Denpasar towards the south of the island. With a population recorded as 3,551,000 in 2009, the island is home to the vast majority of Indonesia's small Hindu minority.
Battle of Lostwithiel: There were two Battles of Lostwithiel, both in the First English Civil War in the 1640s.
Brown University: Brown University is a private university located in Providence, Rhode Island and is a member of the Ivy League. Founded in 1764 prior to American independence from the British Empire as the College in the English Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations early in the reign of King George III (1760-1820), Brown is the third-oldest institution of higher education in New England and seventh oldest in the United States.
Beeb: The nickname Beeb may refer to: The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), sometimes called the Beeb or Auntie Beeb BEEB, a BBC children's magazine published in 1985 The BBC Micro home computer from 1982, built for the BBC by Acorn Computers Ltd Beeb Birtles, a singer-songwriter and a founding member of Little River Band.
Bertrand Russell: Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell, OM, FRS (18 May 1872 - 2 February 1970) was a British philosopher, logician, mathematician, historian, socialist, pacifist and social critic. Although he spent most of his life in England, he was born in Wales, where he also died at the age of 97. Russell led the British "revolt against idealism" in the early 1900s.
Boeing 767: The Boeing 767 is a mid-size, wide-body twinjet airliner produced by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. Passenger versions of the 767 can carry between 181 and 375 passengers, and have a range of 5,200 to 6,590 nautical miles (9,400 to 12,200 km) depending on variant and seating configuration. The Boeing 767 has been produced in three fuselage lengths. The original 767-200 first entered into airline service in 1982, followed by the 767-300 in 1986, and the 767-400ER in 2000.
Bill Walsh American football coach: William Ernest "Bill" Walsh (November 30, 1931 - July 30, 2007) was an American head football coach of the San Francisco 49ers and Stanford University, during which time he popularized the West Coast offense. Walsh went 102-63-1 with the 49ers, winning ten of his fourteen postseason games along with six division titles, three NFC Championship titles, and three Super Bowls. He was named the NFL's Coach of the Year in 1981 and 1984.
Bill Atkinson: Bill Atkinson (born 1951) is an American computer engineer and photographer. Atkinson worked at Apple Computer from 1978 to 1990. He received his undergraduate degree from the University of California, San Diego, where Apple Macintosh developer Jef Raskin was one of his professors. Atkinson continued his studies as a graduate student at the University of Washington.
Utility knife: A utility knife (also known by various other names) is a cutting tool used in various trades and crafts for a variety of purposes. Designed to be lightweight, easy to carry and use, utility knives are commonly used in factories, warehouses, and other situations where a tool is routinely needed to open boxes, packages, or cut through tape or cord.
Bronze: Bronze is a metal alloy consisting primarily of copper, usually with tin as the main additive, but sometimes with other elements such as phosphorus, manganese, aluminium, or silicon. It is hard and brittle, and it was particularly significant in antiquity, giving its name to the Bronze Age.
Boston Herald: The Boston Herald is a daily newspaper that serves Boston, Massachusetts, United States and its surrounding area. It was started in 1846 and is one of the oldest daily newspapers in the United States. It has been awarded four Pulitzer Prizes in its history, the last being in 1954.
Benelux: The Benelux is a union in Western Europe that comprises three neighbouring countries, Belgium, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg (Belgi/Belgique/Belgien - Les Pays Bas/Nederland/Die Niederlande - Ltzebuerg/Luxembourg/Luxemburg), which lie in the north western European region between France and Germany.
Barge: A barge is a flat-bottomed boat, built mainly for river and canal transport of heavy goods. Some barges are not self-propelled and need to be towed by tugboats or pushed by towboats. Canal barges, towed by draft animals on an adjacent towpath, contended with the railway in the early industrial revolution, but were outcompeted in the carriage of high-value items due to the higher speed, falling costs, and route flexibility of rail.
British English: British English, or UK English or English English (BrE, BE, en-GB), is the broad term used to distinguish the forms of the English language used in the United Kingdom from forms used elsewhere. The Oxford English Dictionary applies the term to English "as spoken or written in the British Isles; esp[ecially] the forms of English usual in Great Britain... ", reserving "Hiberno-English" for "The English language as spoken and written in Ireland".
Babe Ruth: George Herman Ruth, Jr. (February 6, 1895 - August 16, 1948), best known as "Babe" Ruth and nicknamed "the Bambino" and "the Sultan of Swat", was an American Major League baseball player from 1914-1935. Ruth originally broke into the major leagues with the Boston Red Sox as a starting pitcher, but after he was sold to the New York Yankees in 1919, he converted to a full-time right fielder and subsequently became one of the league's most prolific hitters.
Berry Berenson: Berinthia "Berry" Berenson Perkins (April 14, 1948 - September 11, 2001) was an American photographer, actress, and model who was also known for being the wife of actor Anthony Perkins, died in the attacks of 9/11 as a passenger on American Airlines Flight 11.
Battle: Generally, a battle is a conceptual component in the hierarchy of combat in warfare between two or more armed forces, wherein each group will seek to defeat the others within the scope of a military campaign, and are well defined in duration, area and force commitment. Wars and military campaigns are guided by strategy, whereas battles take place on a level of planning and execution known as operational mobility. German strategist Carl von Clausewitz stated that "the employment of battles ...
Bill Schelter: William Frederick Schelter (1947 - July 30, 2001) was a professor of mathematics at The University of Texas at Austin and a Lisp developer and programmer. Schelter is credited with the development of GNU Common Lisp (gcl) implementation of Common Lisp and the GPL'd version of the computer algebra system Macsyma called GNU Maxima. He is also credited with the first port of the GNU C compiler to the INTEL 386 architecture, used in the original implementation of the Linux kernel .
Botany: Botany, plant science(s), phytology, or plant biology is a branch of biology and is the scientific study of plant life and development. Botany covers a wide range of scientific disciplines that study plants, algae, and fungi including: structure, growth, reproduction, metabolism, development, diseases, chemical properties, and evolutionary relationships between the different groups.
Bacillus thuringiensis: Bacillus thuringiensis (or Bt) is a Gram-positive, soil-dwelling bacterium, commonly used as a pesticide. Additionally, B. thuringiensis also occurs naturally in the gut of caterpillars of various types of moths and butterflies, as well as on the dark surface of plants.
Bactericide: A bactericide or bacteriocide is a substance that kills bacteria and, ideally, nothing else. Bactericides are either disinfectants, antiseptics or antibiotics.
Bacteriostat: A bacteriostat is a biological or chemical agent that causes bacteriostasis. It stops bacteria from reproducing, while not necessarily harming them otherwise. Upon removal of the bacteriostat, the bacteria usually start to grow again. Bacteriostats are often used in plastics to prevent growth of bacteria on the plastic surface. This is in contrast to bacteriocides, which kill bacteria. Bacteriostats commonly used in laboratory work include sodium azide and thimerosol.
Brion Gysin: Brion Gysin (January 19, 1916 - July 13, 1986) was a painter, writer, sound poet, and performance artist born in Taplow, Buckinghamshire. He is best known for his rediscovery of the cut-up technique, used by William S. Burroughs. With Ian Somerville he invented the Dreamachine, a flicker device designed as an art object to be viewed with the eyes closed. It was in painting, however, that Gysin devoted his greatest efforts, creating calligraphic works inspired by Japanese and Arabic scripts.
Bacteriophage: A bacteriophage (from 'bacteria' and Greek phagein "to eat") is any one of a number of viruses that infect bacteria. Bacteriophages are among the most common biological entities on Earth. The term is commonly used in its shortened form, phage. Typically, bacteriophages consist of an outer protein capsid enclosing genetic material.
Bulgarian: Bulgarian refers to anything of or relating to Bulgaria and may refer directly to: Bulgaria Bulgarian, a citizen of Bulgaria. See also Demographics of Bulgaria and Culture of Bulgaria. For specific Bulgarians, see List of Bulgarians. Bulgarian language, a Slavic language Bulgar language, a Turkic language Bulgarians, an ethnic group. For specific Bulgarians, see List of Bulgarians. Bulgarian cuisine
Bacillus Calmette-Gu rin: Bacillus Calmette-Guin (or Bacille Calmette-Guin, BCG) is a vaccine against tuberculosis that is prepared from a strain of the attenuated (weakened) live bovine tuberculosis bacillus, Mycobacterium bovis, that has lost its virulence in humans by being specially cultured in an artificial medium for years. The bacilli have retained enough strong antigenicity to become a somewhat effective vaccine for the prevention of human tuberculosis.
Common Buzzard: The Common Buzzard (Buteo buteo) is a medium to large bird of prey, whose range covers most of Europe and extends into Asia. It is typically between 51-57 cm in length with a 110 to 130 cm (48-60 inch) wingspan, making it a medium-sized raptor. There are around 40,000 breeding pairs in Britain. It is usually resident all year except in the coldest parts of its range, and in the case of one subspecies. It breeds in woodland, usually on the fringes, but favours hunting over open land.
Barnard's Star: Barnard's Star, also known occasionally as Barnard's "Runaway" Star, is a very low-mass red dwarf star approximately six light-years away from Earth in the constellation of Ophiuchus (the Snake-holder). In 1916, the American astronomer E.E. Barnard measured its proper motion as 10.3 arcseconds per year, which remains the largest-known proper motion of any star relative to the Sun.
Bayer designation: A Bayer designation is a stellar designation in which a specific star is identified by a Greek letter, followed by the genitive form of its parent constellation's Latin name. The original list of Bayer designations contained 1,564 stars. Most of the brighter stars were assigned their first systematic names by the German astronomer Johann Bayer in 1603, in his star atlas Uranometria (named after Urania, the Greek Muse of Astronomy, along with Uranus, the Greek god of the sky and heavens).
Bohrium: Bohrium is a chemical element with the symbol Bh and atomic number 107 and is the heaviest member of group 7 (VIIB). It is a synthetic element whose most stable known isotope, Bh, has a half-life of 61 seconds. Chemical experiments have confirmed bohrium's predicted position as a heavier homologue to rhenium with the formation of a stable +7 oxidation state.
Barbara Olson: Barbara Olson (December 27, 1955-September 11, 2001) was a conservative American television commentator and lawyer who worked for Fox News Channel, CNN and several other outlets. She was a passenger on American Airlines Flight 77 en route to a taping of the television show Politically Incorrect when it was flown into the Pentagon in the September 11 attacks.
Bo tes: Boes is a constellation in the northern sky, located between 0 and +60 declination, 13 and 16 hours of right ascension on the celestial sphere. The name comes from the Greek , meaning herdsman or plowman (literally, ox-driver; from boos, related to the Latin bovis, cow). The "" in the name is a diaeresis, not an umlaut, meaning that each 'o' is to be pronounced separately.
Bernardino Ochino: Bernardino Ochino (1487-1564) was an Italian Reformer.
Bassoon: The bassoon is a woodwind instrument in the double reed family that typically plays music written in the bass and tenor registers, and occasionally higher. Appearing in its modern form in the 1800s, the bassoon figures prominently in orchestral, concert band, and chamber music literature. The bassoon is a non-transposing instrument known for its distinctive tone color, wide range, variety of character, and agility.
Bipedalism: Bipedalism is a form of terrestrial locomotion where an organism moves by means of its two rear limbs, or legs. An animal or machine that usually moves in a bipedal manner is known as a biped, meaning "two feet" (from the Latin bi for "two" and ped for "foot"). Types of bipedal movement include walking, running, or hopping, on two appendages. Relatively few modern species are habitual bipeds whose normal method of locomotion is two-legged.
Bootstrapping: Bootstrapping or booting refers to a group of metaphors that share a common meaning: a self-sustaining process that proceeds without external help. The term is often attributed to Rudolf Erich Raspe's story ', where the main character pulls himself out of a swamp, though it's disputed whether it was done by his hair or by his .
Bay of Quinte: The Bay of Quinteregion of the Canadian province of Ontario is composed of several communities situated along the Bay of Quinte. Belleville, Ontario is the largest city in the Quinte Region, and represents a mid-point between Montreal, Ottawa and Toronto. The Bay of Quinte is a long, thin bay shaped like the letter "Z" on the northern shore of Lake Ontario in the province of Ontario, Canada. It is located about 200 kilometers east of Toronto and 400 west of Montreal.
Baltic languages: The Baltic languages are a group of related languages belonging to the Indo-European language family and spoken mainly in areas extending east and southeast of the Baltic Sea in Northern Europe.
Bioinformatics: Bioinformatics is the application of information technology and computer science to the field of molecular biology. The term bioinformatics was coined by Paulien Hogeweg in 1979 for the study of informatic processes in biotic systems. Its primary use since at least the late 1980s has been in genomics and genetics, particularly in those areas of genomics involving large-scale DNA sequencing.
B-25 Mitchell: The North American B-25 Mitchell was an American twin-engined medium bomber manufactured by North American Aviation. It was used by many Allied air forces, in every theater of World War II, as well as many other air forces after the war ended, and saw service across four decades. The B-25 was named in honor of General Billy Mitchell, a pioneer of U.S. military aviation. The B-25 is the only American military aircraft named after a specific person.
Brian De Palma: Brian Russell De Palma (born September 11, 1940) is an American film director and writer. In a career spanning over forty years, he is probably best known for his suspense and thriller films, including such box office successes as Carrie, Dressed to Kill, Scarface, Carlito's Way, The Untouchables, and '.
British Open disambiguation: The British Open commonly refers to The Open Championship men's golf tournament. British Open may also refer to the following sporting articles: Women's British Open of golf British Open Show Jumping Championships British Open Squash Championships British Open (snooker), a now defunct tournament Dancing competitions of the Blackpool Dance Festival
Bobby Charlton: Sir Robert "Bobby" Charlton CBE is an English former professional football player who won the World Cup and was named the European Footballer of the Year in 1966. He played almost all of his club football at Manchester United, where he became renowned for his attacking instincts from midfield and his ferocious long-range shot. His elder brother Jack, who was also in the World Cup-winning team, was a former defender for Leeds United and coach.
Barry Lyndon: Barry Lyndon is a 1975 period film by Stanley Kubrick loosely based on the 1844 novel The Luck of Barry Lyndon by William Makepeace Thackeray. It recounts the exploits of a 18th century Irish adventurer, particularly his rise and fall in English society. Ryan O'Neal stars as the title character.
Buffy the Vampire Slayer film: Buffy the Vampire Slayer is a 1992 American action/comedy/horror film about a valley girl cheerleader named Buffy who learns that it is her fate to hunt vampires. The movie is a parody which plays on the clich of typical horror films. The film was written by Joss Whedon, who later created the darker and more acclaimed TV series of the same name starring Sarah Michelle Gellar. It was a moderate success at the box office and received mixed reviews from critics.
Barter: Bartering is a medium in which goods or services are directly exchanged for other goods and/or services without a medium of exchange, such as money. It can be or multilateral, and usually exists parallel to monetary systems in most developed countries, though to a very limited extent. Barter usually replaces money as the method of exchange in times of monetary crisis, when the currency is unstable and devalued by hyperinflation.
Cell biology: The cell is the functional basic unit of life. It was discovered by Robert Hooke and is the functional unit of all known living organisms. It is the smallest unit of life that is classified as a living thing, and is often called the building block of life. Some organisms, such as most bacteria, are unicellular (consist of a single cell). Other organisms, such as humans, are multicellular.
Berthe Morisot: Berthe Morisot (January 14, 1841 - March 2, 1895) was a painter and a member of the circle of painters in Paris who became known as the Impressionists. Undervalued for over a century, possibly because she was a woman, she is now considered among the first league of Impressionist painters. In 1864, she exhibited for the first time in the highly esteemed Salon de Paris.
Bayezid I: Bayezid I was the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire, then Rm, from 1389 to 1402. He was the son of Murad I and Valide Sultan Glk Hatun who was of ethnic Greek descent.
Order of Saint Benedict: The Order of Saint Benedict is a Roman Catholic religious order of independent monastic communities that observe the Rule of St. Benedict. Within the order, each individual community maintains its own autonomy, while the organization as a whole exists to represent their mutual interests.
Bayezid II: Bayezid II (Dec 3, 1447 - May 26, 1512) was the oldest son and successor of Mehmed II, ruling as Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1481 to 1512. During his reign, Bayezid II consolidated the Ottoman Empire and thwarted a Safavid rebellion soon before abdicating his throne to his son, Selim I.
Barnard College: Barnard College is an independently incorporated women's liberal arts college and an official college of Columbia University. Barnard College is also a member of the Seven Sisters. Founded in 1889, Barnard has been affiliated with Columbia University since 1902. While the college is legally and financially a separate institution, there is a high degree of academic integration within the University, with Columbia classes open to Barnard students and vice versa.
Bollywood: Bollywood is the informal term popularly used for the Hindi-language film industry based in Mumbai, India. The term is often incorrectly used to refer to the whole of Indian cinema; it is only a part of the Indian film industry. Bollywood is the largest film producer in India and one of the largest centers of film production in the world. The name is a portmanteau of Bombay (the former name for Mumbai) and Hollywood, the center of the American film industry.
Boxing: Boxing is a Martial Art and a combat sport in which two people, male or female, generally of similar weight, fight each other with their fists. Boxing is supervised by a referee and is typically engaged in during a series of one- to three-minute intervals called rounds. There are three ways to win.
Bowls: Bowls is a sport in which the goal is to roll slightly asymmetric balls, called bowls, closest to a smaller- normally white- bowl called the "jack" or "kitty". Bowls, either flat- or -green, is usually played outdoors, on grass and synthetic surfaces. Flat-green bowls can also be played indoors on synthetic surfaces. Both variants are collectively known as "lawn bowls". Bowls belongs to the boules sport family, and so is related to bocce and panque.
Barcelonnette: Barcelonnette (Barcilona de Proven in Occitan) is a commune in the Ubaye Valley, in the southern French Alps, in Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department, of which it is a sub-prefecture.
Bavarii: The Bavarii were a large and powerful tribe which emerged late in Teutonic tribal times. They replaced, or perhaps are simply another phase of, the previous inhabitants - the Rugians. They swiftly expanded their influence southward, and occupied Austria and the area which still bears their name: Bavaria. There is some argument as to the origins of the Bavarii.
Bah ' Faith: The Bah' Faith is a monotheistic religion founded by Bah'u'll in nineteenth-century Persia, emphasizing the spiritual unity of all humankind. There are an estimated five to six million Bah's around the world in more than 200 countries and territories. In the Bah' Faith, religious history is seen to have unfolded through a series of divine messengers, each of whom established a religion that was suited to the needs of the time and the capacity of the people.
Burgundians: The Burgundians were an East Germanic tribe which may have emigrated from mainland Scandinavia to the island of Bornholm, whose old form in Old Norse still was Burgundarholmr (the Island of the Burgundians), and from there to mainland Europe. In orsteins saga Vkingssonar, Veseti settled in an island or holm, which was called Borgund's holm, i.e. Bornholm. Alfred the Great's translation of Orosius uses the name Burgenda land.
Dots and Boxes: Dots and Boxes or "Timbiriche" (also known as Boxes, Squares, Paddocks, Square-it, Dots and Dashes, Dots, Smart Dots, Dot Boxing, or, simply, the Dot Game) is a pencil and paper game for two players (or sometimes, more than two) first published in 1889 by ouard Lucas. Starting with an empty grid of dots, players take turns, adding a single horizontal or vertical line between two unjoined adjacent dots. A player who completes the fourth side of a box earns one point and takes another turn.
Big Brother Nineteen Eighty-Four: Big Brother is a fictional character in George Orwell's novel Nineteen Eighty-Four, the enigmatic dictator of Oceania, a totalitarian state taken to its utmost logical consequence - where the ruling elite ('the Party') wield total power for its own sake over the inhabitants. In the society that Orwell describes, everyone is under complete surveillance by the authorities, mainly by telescreens.
Binary search algorithm: In computer science, a binary search is an algorithm for locating the position of an element in a sorted list. It inspects the middle element of the sorted list: if equal to the sought value, then the position has been found; otherwise, the upper half or lower half is chosen for further searching based on whether the sought value is greater than or less than the middle element.
Belle Sebastian: Belle & Sebastian are an indie pop band formed in Glasgow in January 1996. They are one of the best-known Scottish bands and are one of the most celebrated groups of the 1990s. Belle & Sebastian are often compared to influential indie bands such as The Smiths, as well as classic acts such as Love, Bob Dylan and Nick Drake. The name Belle & Sebastian is inspired by Belle et Sastien, a children's book by French writer Cile Aubry.
Beechcraft: Beechcraft is a American manufacturer of general aviation and military aircraft, ranging from light single engine aircraft to business jets and light military transports. Previously a division of Raytheon, it has been a unit of Hawker Beechcraft since 2007.
Broadcast domain: A broadcast domain is a logical division of a computer network, in which all nodes can reach each other by broadcast at the data link layer. A broadcast domain can be within the same LAN segment or it can be bridged to other LAN segments. In terms of current popular technologies: Any computer connected to the same Ethernet repeater or switch is a member of the same broadcast domain.
Battle of Peleliu: The Battle of Peleliu, codenamed Operation Stalemate II, was fought between the United States and the Empire of Japan in the Pacific Theater of World War II, from September to November 1944 on the island of Peleliu. U.S. forces (originally consisting of only the 1st Marine Division, but later relieved by the Army's 81st Infantry Division), fought to capture an airstrip on the small coral island.
Biconditional introduction: In mathematical logic, biconditional introduction is the rule of inference that, if B follows from A, and A follows from B, then A if and only if B. For example, from the statements "if I'm breathing, then I'm alive" and "if I'm alive, then I'm breathing", it can be inferred that "I'm breathing if and only if I'm alive". Formally, biconditional introduction is the rule schema
Bodhidharma: Very little contemporary biographical information on Bodhidharma is extant, and subsequent accounts became layered with legend, but most accounts agree that he was from the southern region of India, born as a prince to a royal family. Bodhidharma left his kingdom after becoming a Buddhist monk and travelled through Southeast Asia into Southern China and subsequently relocated northwards.
Biconditional elimination: Biconditional elimination allows one to infer a conditional from a biconditional: if (A B) is true, then one may infer either direction of the biconditional, (A B) and (B A). For example, if it's true that I'm breathing if and only if I'm alive, then it's true that if I'm breathing, I'm alive; likewise, it's true that if I'm alive, I'm breathing. Formally: (A B) (A B) also (A B) (B A)
Battle of Stalingrad: The Battle of Stalingrad was a major battle of World War II in which Nazi Germany and its allies fought the Soviet Union for control of the city of Stalingrad (now Volgograd) in southwestern Russia. The battle took place between 17 July 1942 and 2 February 1943, and is often cited as one of the turning points of the war. The battle was among the bloodiest in the history of warfare, with the upper estimates of combined casualties coming to nearly two million.
Base pair: Bonds need to complement each other. In molecular biology, two nucleotides on opposite complementary DNA or RNA strands that are connected via hydrogen bonds are called a base pair (often abbreviated bp). In the canonical Watson-Crick base pairing, adenine (A) forms a base pair with thymine (T), as does guanine (G) with cytosine (C) in DNA. In RNA, thymine is replaced by uracil (U).
Batavi ancient people: The Batavi were an ancient Germanic tribe, originally part of the Chatti, reported by Tacitus to have lived around the Rhine delta, in the area that is currently the Netherlands, "an uninhabited district on the extremity of the coast of Gaul, and also of a neighbouring island, surrounded by the ocean in front, and by the river Rhine in the rear and on either side" (Tacitus, Historiae iv). This led to the Latin name of insula Batavorum for the area.
Baltimore Ravens: The Baltimore Ravens are a professional American football franchise based in Baltimore, Maryland. They are a member of the American Football Conference's North Division in the National Football League (NFL). The team's name is a reference to the poem "The Raven" by Edgar Allan Poe, who lived and worked in Baltimore at various points during his life and is buried in the city.
British National Party: The British National Party (BNP) is a far-right political party formed as a splinter group from the National Front by John Tyndall in 1982. Until 2009, when it was challenged in the courts on grounds of racial discrimination, it restricted membership to people of "Caucasian origin".
Baptism: In Christianity, baptism is the ritual act, with the use of water, by which a person is admitted to membership of the Christian Church. Jesus himself was baptized. The usual form of baptism among the earliest Christians was for the candidate (or "baptizand") to be immersed totally or partially.
Beatmatching: Beatmatching is a disc jockey technique of pitch shifting or timestretching a track to match its tempo to that of the currently playing track i.e. the kicks and snares in two house records hit at the same time when both records are played simultaneously. Beatmatching is a component of Mixing which employs beatmatching combined with equalization, attention to phrasing and track selection in an attempt to make a single mix that flows together and has a good structure.
Bocce: Bocce (or Bocci, or Boccie) is a precision sport belonging to the boules sport family, closely related to bowls and panque with a common ancestry from ancient games played in the Roman Empire.
Beltane: Beltane or Beltaine is the anglicised spelling of Bealtaine or Bealltainn, the Gaelic names for either the month of May or the festival that takes place on the first day of May. In Irish Gaelic, the month of May is known as M Bhealtaine or Bealtaine, and the festival as L Bealtaine ('day of Bealtaine' or, 'May Day'). In Scottish Gaelic, the month is known as either (An) Ctean or a' Mhgh, and the festival is known as Latha Bealltainn or simply Bealltainn.
Benjamin: Benjamin was the last-born of Jacob's twleve sons, and the second (and last) son of Rachel in the Book of Genesis. He was the founder of the Israelite Tribe of Benjamin. In the Biblical account, unlike Rachel's first son, Joseph, Benjamin was born in Canaan. He died in Egypt on the 11th of Cheshvan (which was also his birthday) 1443 BCE at the age of 111.
Black Sabbath: Black Sabbath are an English rock band, formed in Birmingham in 1968 by Tony Iommi, Ozzy Osbourne, Terry "Geezer" Butler, and Bill Ward. The band has since experienced multiple lineup changes, with a total of twenty-two former members. Originally formed as a heavy blues-rock band named Earth, the band began incorporating occult- and horror-inspired lyrics with tuned-down guitars, changing their name to Black Sabbath and achieving multiple platinum records in the 1970s.
Books of Chronicles: The Books of Chronicles (Hebrew Divrei Hayyamim, , Greek Paralipomenon, ) are part of the Hebrew Bible. In the Masoretic Text, it appears as the first or last book of the Ketuvim (the latter arrangement also making it the final book of the Jewish bible). Chronicles largely parallels the Davidic narratives in the Books of Samuel and the Books of Kings.
Buffalo Bills: The Buffalo Bills are a professional American football team based in the metropolitan area of Buffalo, New York. They play their home games in the suburb of Orchard Park, and since 2008 have played one home game per season in Toronto. They are members of the Eastern Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Bills began competitive play in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League and joined the NFL as part of the AFL-NFL merger.
Bethlehem: Bethlehem is a Palestinian city in the central West Bank, approximately 10 kilometers (6 mi) south of Jerusalem, with a population of about 30,000 people. It is the capital of the Bethlehem Governorate of the Palestinian National Authority and a hub of Palestinian culture and tourism. The New Testament Gospels of Matthew and Luke identify Bethlehem as the birthplace of Jesus of Nazareth.
Big Dig: The Big Dig is the unofficial name of the Central Artery/Tunnel Project (CA/T), a megaproject that rerouted the Central Artery, the chief highway through the heart of Boston, into a 3.5 mile (5.6 km) tunnel under the city. The project also included the construction of the Ted Williams Tunnel, the Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Memorial Bridge over the Charles River, and the Rose Kennedy Greenway in the space vacated by the previous I-93 elevated roadway.
Binary search tree: In computer science, a binary search tree (BST) is a node-based binary tree data structure which has the following properties: The left subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys less than the node's key. The right subtree of a node contains only nodes with keys greater than the node's key. Both the left and right subtrees must also be binary search trees. From the above properties it naturally follows that: Each node (item in the tree) has a distinct key.
Binary tree: In computer science, a binary tree is a tree data structure in which each node has at most two children. Typically the first node is known as the parent and the child nodes are called left and right. In type theory, a binary tree with nodes of type A is defined inductively as TA = . 1 + A &times; &times; . Binary trees are commonly used to implement binary search trees and binary heaps.
Blackadder: Blackadder is the generic name that encompasses four series of a BBC One historical sitcom, along with several one-off installments. All episodes star Rowan Atkinson and Tony Robinson as anti-hero Edmund Blackadder and his dogsbody, Baldrick. Each series is set in a different historical period with Blackadder and Baldrick as main characters.
Borel measure: In mathematics, the Borel algebra is the smallest &sigma;-algebra on the real numbers R containing the intervals, and the Borel measure is the measure on this -algebra which gives to the interval [a, b] the measure b &minus; a. The Borel measure is not complete, which is why in practice the complete Lebesgue measure is preferred: every Borel measurable set is also Lebesgue measurable, and the measures of the set agree.
Boii: Boii is the Roman name of an Iron age tribe located at the beginning of their history in central Europe, perhaps in or including the regions that still bear their name: Bavaria and Bohemia. The Roman and Greek historians of the late Roman Republic and Roman Empire considered them to be a Gallic or Celtic tribe; that is, a member of a larger ethnic group in Europe termed the Celts or Gauls.
Backgammon: Backgammon is one of the oldest board games for two players in which the playing pieces are moved according to the roll of dice. Players win by removing all of their pieces from the board. There are many variants of backgammon, most of which share common traits. Backgammon is a member of the tables family, one of the oldest classes of board games in the world. Although luck plays an important role, there is a large scope for strategy.
Book of Ezra: The Book of Ezra is a book of the Hebrew Bible. It is the record of events occurring at the close of the Babylonian captivity, especially The Return to Zion. At one time, it included the Book of Nehemiah, and the Jews regarded them as one volume. The two are still distinguished in the Vulgate version as I and II Esdras.
Book of Daniel: The Book of Daniel () is a book in the Hebrew Bible. Originally written in Hebrew and Aramaic, it is set during the Babylonian Captivity, a period when Jews were deported and exiled to Babylon following the Siege of Jerusalem of 597 BC. The book revolves around the figure of Daniel, a Judean who becomes Chief Magician in the court of Nebuchadnezzar, the ruler of Babylon from 605 to 562 BC.
Book of Joshua: The Book of Joshua is the sixth book in the Hebrew Bible. This book stands as the first in the Former (or First) Prophets covering the history of Israel from the possession of the Promised Land to the Babylonian Captivity. The book of Joshua contains a history of the Israelites from the death of Moses to that of Joshua. After Moses' death, Joshua, by virtue of his previous appointment as Moses' successor, received from God the command to cross the Jordan River.
Brythonic: Brythonic may refer to: British language (Celtic) or Brythonic, the Celtic language anciently spoken in Great Britain Brythonic languages, a branch of the Celtic languages descended from British Britons (historical), the Celtic people of Great Britain in ancient times
Batman: Batman, originally referred to as "the Bat-Man" and still referred to at times as "the Batman", is a fictional character, a comic book superhero co-created by artist Bob Kane and writer Bill Finger (although only Kane receives official credit), appearing in publications by DC Comics. The character first appeared in Detective Comics #27 in May 1939.
Baltimore Orioles: The Baltimore Orioles are a professional baseball team based in Baltimore, Maryland. They are a member of the Eastern Division of Major League Baseball's American League. Since 1992, the Orioles have played their home games at Oriole Park at Camden Yards. The "Orioles" name refers to the official state bird of Maryland. Nicknames for the team include the O's and the Birds.
Bastarnae: The Bastarnae or Basternae were an ancient tribal group of probably mixed Celtic and Germanic origin which, between not later than 200 BC and until at least AD 300, inhabited the region between the eastern Carpathian mountains and the Dnieper river (corresponding to the modern Republic of Moldova and western part of southern Ukraine). A branch of the Bastarnae, called the Peucini by Greco-Roman writers, occupied the region north of the Danube river delta.
Bavarian: Bavarian is the adjective form of the German state of Bavaria, and refers to people of ancestry from Bavaria. Bavarian may also refer to: Austro-Bavarian, a group of closely related dialects of German, spoken in parts of Bavaria, most of Austria and the Alto Adige/Sdtiro Bavarian cream, a custard sauce Bavarian Motor Works (BMW), a German automobile and motorcycle manufacturing company
Boston Red Sox: The Boston Red Sox are a member of the Major League Baseballs American League Eastern Division. Since 1912, the Red Sox's home ballpark has been Fenway Park. The "Red Sox" name was chosen by the team owner, Mr Taylor, a year or two before Fenway Park was begun on land his family owned. (per Red Sox Century). The club icons have followed from that decision. The club was founded in 1901, as one of the American League's eight charter franchises.
BBC Radio 1: BBC Radio 1 is a British national radio station operated by the BBC which also broadcasts internationally, specialising in current popular music and chart hits throughout the day. Radio 1 provides alternative genres after 7:00pm including electronic dance, hip hop, rock or interviews. It is aimed primarily at the 15-29 age group, although the average age of the audience is 33.
BBC Red Button: BBC Red Button (known as BBCi until 2008) is the brand name for digital interactive television services provided by the BBC, and broadcast in the United Kingdom. The services replace Ceefax, the BBC's analogue teletext service, and is only available via digital television receivers. The service can be accessed via Digital terrestrial television (DTT), satellite television and cable television.
Baldric: A baldric (also baldrick, bawdrick, bauldrick as well as some other, mostly rare or obsolete, variations) is a belt worn over one shoulder that is typically used to carry a weapon or other implement such as a bugle or drum. The word may also refer to any belt in general, but this usage is poetic and not considered standard. Baldrics have been used since ancient times.
Backplane: A backplane (or "backplane system") is a circuit board that connects several connectors in parallel to each other, so that each pin of each connector is linked to the same relative pin of all the other connectors, forming a computer bus. It is used as a backbone to connect several printed circuit boards together to make up a complete computer system. Early personal computers like the Apple II and the IBM PC integrated an internal backplane for expansion cards.
Battle of Waterloo: The Battle of Waterloo was fought on Sunday 18 June 1815 near Waterloo in present-day Belgium. An Imperial French army under the command of Emperor Napoleon was defeated by combined armies of the Seventh Coalition, one an Anglo-Allied army under the command of the Duke of Wellington and the other a Prussian army under the command of Gebhard von Blcher. It was the culminating battle of the Waterloo Campaign and Napoleon's last.
Bodybuilding: Bodybuilding is a form of body modification involving intensive muscle hypertrophy; an individual who engages in this activity is referred to as a bodybuilder. In competitive bodybuilding, bodybuilders display their physiques to a panel of judges, who assign points based on their appearance. The muscles are revealed through a process known as the "cutting phase" - a combination of fat loss, oils, and tanning which combined with lighting make the definition of the muscle group more distinct.
Bohemia: Bohemia is a historical region in central Europe, occupying the western two-thirds of the traditional Czech Lands, currently the Czech Republic and with its capital in Prague. In a broader meaning, it often refers to the entire Czech territory, including Moravia and Czech Silesia, especially in historical contexts, such as the Kingdom of Bohemia. Bohemia has an area of 52,750 km and today is home to 6.25 million of the Czech Republic's 10.3 million inhabitants.
Biological warfare: Biological warfare (BW), also known as germ warfare, is the use of pathogens such as viruses, bacteria, other disease-causing biological agents, or the toxins produced by them as biological weapons (or bioweapons). There is a clear overlap between biological warfare and chemical warfare, as the use of toxins produced by living organisms is considered under the provisions of both the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention and the Chemical Weapons Convention.
Book of Jeremiah: The Book of Jeremiah, or Jeremiah ( Yirmyh in Hebrew), is part of the Hebrew Bible, Judaism's Tanakh, and later became a part of Christianity's Old Testament. It was originally written in a complex and poetic Hebrew, recording the words and events surrounding the life of the Jewish prophet Jeremiah who lived at the time of the destruction of Solomon's Temple in Jerusalem during the fall of the Kingdom of Judah at the hands of Babylonia.
Boomerang: A boomerang is a curved piece of wood used as a weapon and for sport. Boomerangs come in many shapes and sizes depending on their geographic or tribal origins and intended function. The most recognisable type is the returning boomerang, which is a throwing stick that travels in an elliptical path and returns to its point of origin when thrown correctly.
Book of Nehemiah: The Book of Nehemiah, sometimes called the Second Book of Ezra, is a book of the Hebrew Bible. It is historically regarded as a continuation of the Book of Ezra, and the two are frequently taken together as Ezra-Nehemiah. Traditionally, the author of this book is believed to be Nehemiah himself. The date at which the book was written was probably about 431 - 430 BC, when Nehemiah had returned the second time to Jerusalem after his visit to Persia.
Book of Isaiah: The Book of Isaiah is a book of the Bible traditionally attributed to the Prophet Isaiah, who lived in the second half of the 8th century BC. In the first 39 chapters, Isaiah prophesies doom for a sinful Judah and for all the nations of the world that oppose God. The last 27 chapters prophesy the restoration of the nation of Israel.
Bilinear map: In mathematics, a bilinear operator is a function combining elements of two vector spaces to yield an element of a third vector space that is linear in each of its arguments. Matrix multiplication is an example.
Blind Blake: "Blind" Blake was an influential blues/ragtime singer and guitarist. He is often called "The King of Ragtime Guitar".
Brian Lara: The Hon Brian Charles Lara, TC, OCC, AM is a former West Indian cricketer, who is widely regarded as one of the greatest batsmen of all time. He topped the Test batting rankings on several occasions and holds several cricketing records. He holds the record for the highest individual score in first-class cricket, with 501 not out for Warwickshire against Durham at Edgbaston in 1994, which is the only quintuple hundred in first-class cricket history.
Buffer overflow: In computer security and programming, a buffer overflow, or buffer overrun, is an anomaly where a process stores data in a buffer outside the memory the programmer set aside for it. The extra data overwrites adjacent memory, which may contain other data, including program variables and program flow control data. This may result in erratic program behavior, including memory access errors, incorrect results, program termination, or a breach of system security.
Beagle: The Beagle is a breed of small to medium-sized dog. A member of the Hound Group, it is similar in appearance to the Foxhound but smaller, with shorter legs and longer, softer ears. Beagles are scent hounds, developed primarily for tracking hare, rabbit, and other game. They have a keen sense of smell and tracking instinct that sees them employed as detection dogs for prohibited agricultural imports and foodstuffs in quarantine around the world.
Boiled leather: Boiled leather, sometimes called cuir bouilli, was a historical construction material for armour. It consists of thick leather, boiled in water (some sources hold that oil and wax were used as well, others posit the use of ammonia from fermented animal urine). The boiling causes the leather to be harder and more brittle. The boiled leather can be fashioned into lames/scales to make lamellar or scale armor.
Book of Numbers: The Book of Numbers or Bmidbar is the fourth book of the Hebrew Bible, and the fourth of five books of the Jewish Torah/Pentateuch. This book may be divided into three parts: The numbering of the people at Sinai, and preparations for resuming their march . An account of the journey from Sinai to Moab, the sending out of the spies and the report they brought back, the murmurings (eight times) of the people at the hardships by the way, and the subsequent exile into the wilderness for 40 years .
Book of Judges: The Book of Judges is a book of the Bible originally written in Hebrew. It appears in the Tanakh and in the Christian Old Testament. Its title refers to its contents; it contains the history of Biblical judges (not to be confused with modern judges), who helped rule and guide the ancient Israelites, and of their times.
Barry Bonds: Barry Lamar Bonds (born July 24, 1964) is a Major League Baseball player who played for the Pittsburgh Pirates and San Francisco Giants from 1986 to 2007. Although he has not announced his retirement, his agent says it is "nearly impossible" that he will play again. He is the son of former major league All-Star Bobby Bonds. He debuted in the Major Leagues with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1986 and joined the San Francisco Giants in 1993, where he stayed through 2007.
Books of Samuel: The Books of Samuel are part of the Hebrew Bible. The work was originally written in Hebrew, and the Book(s) of Samuel originally formed a single text, as they are often considered today in Jewish bibles. Together with what is now referred to as the Book(s) of Kings, the translators who created the Greek Septuagint divided the text into four books, which they named the Books of the Kingdoms.
Bug: File:Wiktionary-logo-en. svg Look up bug in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Bug or BUG can refer to:
Book of Revelation: The Book of the Revelation of John, usually referred to simply as Revelation or the Book of Revelation, is the last book of the New Testament. It is also called the Apocalypse of John. Apocalypse, from the Greek, is a synonym for "Revelation", but also from it comes the name for the type of literature; an "apocalypse" is a work of apocalyptic literature. John's is the only book in the Canon that is wholly composed of apocalyptic literature.
Books of Kings: The Books of Kings are books included in the Hebrew Bible. They were originally written in Hebrew and are recognised as scripture by Judaism and Christianity. According to Biblical chronology, the events in the Books of Kings occurred between the 10th and 6th centuries BC. The books contain accounts of the kings of the ancient Kingdom of Israel (united monarchy) and the Kingdom of Judah.
Book of Esther: The Book of Esther is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible. The Book of Esther or the Megillah is the basis for the Jewish celebration of Purim. Its full text is read aloud twice during the celebration, in the evening and again the following morning.
Book of Ruth: The Book of Ruth is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible. It is a rather short book, in both Jewish and Christian scripture, consisting of only four chapters.
British Rail: British Railways (BR), which later traded as British Rail, was the operator of most of the rail transport in Great Britain between 1948 and 1997. It was formed as a result of the nationalisation of the "Big Four" British railway companies and lasted until the gradual privatisation of British Rail in stages between 1994 and 1997.
Book of Proverbs: The Book of Proverbs is a book of the Hebrew Bible. The original Hebrew title of the book of Proverbs is "Mshl Shlomoh". When translated into Greek and Latin, the title took on different forms. In the Greek Septuagint (LXX) the title became "paroimai paroimiae" ("Proverbs"). In the Latin Vulgate the title was "proverbia", from which the English title of Proverbs is derived.
Rail transport in Great Britain: The railway system in Great Britain is the oldest in the world, with the world's first locomotive hauled public railway opening in 1825. As of 2006, it consists of 16,264 kilometres (10,106 mi) of standard gauge lines, of which 5,361 kilometres (3,331 mi) are electrified. These lines are single, double or quadruple track. In addition, a number of narrow gauge lines operate in parts of the country.
Browser: Browser can refer to: Browsing (predation), a type of predation A user interface on a computer that allows navigation of objects Web browser, used to access the World Wide Web File browser, for managing files and related objects "Help browser", for reading online help Code browser, for navigating source code
Book of Lamentations: The Book of Lamentations is a book of the Hebrew Bible. It is traditionally read by the Jewish people on Tisha B'Av, the fast day that commemorates the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem.
Book of Ezekiel: The Book of Ezekiel is a book of the Hebrew Bible, and also recognized as divinely inspired (and therefore canonical) by most denominations of Christianity. The book derives its name from the prophet Ezekiel, a prophet from the sixth-century BC. This book records Ezekiel's preaching. His name (Hb. Yekhezqel) means "God strengthens" or "May God strengthen". Ezekiel lived out his prophetic career among the community of exiled Judeans in Babylon.
Big Brother TV series: Big Brother is a reality television show in which a group of people live together in a large house, isolated from the outside world but continuously watched by television cameras. Each series lasts for around three months, and there are usually fewer than 15 participants. The housemates try to win a cash prize by avoiding periodic evictions from the house.
Bioterrorism: Bioterrorism is terrorism by intentional release or dissemination of biological agents; these may be in a naturally-occurring or in a human-modified form.
Bristol City F.C.: Bristol City Football Club is one of two football league clubs in Bristol, England, (the other being arch rivals Bristol Rovers). They play at Ashton Gate, located in the south-west of the City. Gary Johnson has been the team's manager since 23 September 2005, succeeding Brian Tinnion.
Beaver: The beaver is a primarily nocturnal, large, semi-aquatic rodent. Castor includes two extant species, Castor canadensis and Castor fiber. Beavers are known for building dams, canals, and lodges (homes). They are the second-largest rodent in the world. Their colonies create one or more dams to provide still, deep water to protect against predators, and to float food and building material. The North American beaver population was once more than 60 million, but as of 1988 was 6-12 million.
Book of Job: The Book of Job is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible. It relates the story of Job, his trials at the hands of the Satan, his theological discussions with friends on the origins and nature of his suffering, his challenge to God, and finally a response from God. The Book itself comprises a didactic poem set in a prose framing device and has been called "the most profound and literary work of the entire Old Testament".
Bear: Bears are mammals of the family Ursidae. Bears are classified as caniforms, or doglike carnivorans, with the pinnipeds being their closest living relatives. Although there are only eight living species of bear, they are widespread, appearing in a wide variety of habitats throughout the Northern Hemisphere and partially in the Southern Hemisphere. Bears are found in the continents of North America, South America, Europe, and Asia.
BCS theory: BCS theory is the first microscopic theory of superconductivity, proposed by Bardeen, Cooper, and Schrieffer in 1957 since the discovery of superconductivity in 1911. It describes superconductivity as a microscopic effect caused by a "condensation" of pairs of electrons into a boson-like state.
B-2 Spirit: The Northrop Grumman B-2 Spirit (also known as the Stealth Bomber) is an American heavy bomber with "low observable" stealth technology designed to penetrate dense anti-aircraft defenses and deploy both conventional and nuclear weapons. Because of its considerable capital and operations costs, the project was controversial in Congress and among Pentagon brass. During the late 1980s and early 1990s, Congress slashed initial plans to purchase 132 bombers to just 21.
Biathlon: Biathlon is a term used to describe any sporting event made up of two disciplines. However, biathlon usually refers specifically to the winter sport that combines cross-country skiing and rifle shooting. Other popular variants include summer biathlon, which combines cross-country running with riflery, modern biathlon and biathle, which combine running with swimming.
Brown Bear: The brown bear (Ursus arctos) is a large bear distributed across much of northern Eurasia and North America. It weighs 70 to 780 kilograms (150 to 1,700 lb) and its largest subspecies, the Kodiak Bear, rivals the polar bear as the largest member of the bear family and as the largest land based predator. There are several recognized subspecies within the brown bear species.
Bubble and squeak: Bubble and squeak (sometimes just called bubble) is a traditional English dish made with the shallow-fried leftover vegetables from a roast dinner. The chief ingredients are potato and cabbage, but carrots, peas, brussels sprouts, and other vegetables can be added. It is traditionally served with cold meat from the Sunday roast, and pickles. Traditionally, the meat was added to the bubble and squeak itself, although nowadays it is more commonly made without meat.
Buddy Holly: Charles Hardin Holley (September 7, 1936 - February 3, 1959), known professionally as Buddy Holly, was an American singer-songwriter and a pioneer of rock and roll. Although his success lasted only a year and a half before his death in an airplane crash, Holly is described by critic Bruce Eder as "the single most influential creative force in early rock and roll.
Benz: Benz may refer to:
Brewing: Brewing is the production of beer through steeping a starch source (commonly cereal grains) in water and then fermenting with yeast. Brewing has taken place since around the 6th millennium BC, and archeological evidence suggests that this technique was used in ancient Egypt. Descriptions of various beer recipes can be found in Sumerian writings, some of the oldest known writing of any sort.
Breast reconstruction: Breast reconstruction is the rebuilding of a breast, usually in women. It involves using autologous tissue or prosthetic material to construct a natural-looking breast. Often this includes the reformation of a natural-looking areola and nipple. This procedure involves the use of implants or relocated flaps of the patient's own tissue.
Brooklyn Historic Railway Association: The Brooklyn Historic Railway Association's (BHRA) shop, trolley barn and offices are located in Red Hook, Brooklyn, New York, on the historic Beard Street Piers (circa 1870). BHRA had a fleet of 16 trolleys (15 PCC trolleys and a leased 1897 trolley car from Oslo, Norway). Restoration of Brooklyn's trolley routes was hampered due to the New York City Department of Transportation (DOT) withdrawing its support from the project.
Beta-lactam: A beta-lactam ring is a lactam with a heteroatomic ring structure, consisting of three carbon atoms and one nitrogen atom. A lactam is a cyclic amide.
Bishopric of Brandenburg: The Bishopric of Brandenburg was a Roman Catholic diocese established by Otto the Great in 948, including the territory between the Elbe on the west, the Oder on the east, and the Schwarze Elster on the south, and taking in the Uckermark to the north. Its seat was Brandenburg. It was a state of the Holy Roman Empire for some time, but never managed to gain control over a significant territory, being overshadowed by the Margraviate of Brandenburg, which was originally seated in the same city.
BASE jumping: B.A.S.E. jumping, also sometimes written as BASE jumping, is an activity that employs an initially packed parachute to jump from fixed objects. "B.A.S.E. " is an acronym that stands for four categories of fixed objects from which one can jump: buildings, antennas, spans, and earth.
Bald Eagle: The Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) is a bird of prey found in North America. It is the national bird and symbol of the United States of America. This sea eagle has two known sub-species and forms a species pair with the White-tailed Eagle. Its range includes most of Canada and Alaska, all of the contiguous United States, and northern Mexico. It is found near large bodies of open water with an abundant food supply and old-growth trees for nesting.
Beauty: Beauty is a characteristic of a person, animal, place, object, or idea that provides a perceptual experience of pleasure, meaning, or satisfaction. Beauty is studied as part of aesthetics, sociology, social psychology, and culture. An "ideal beauty" is an entity which is admired, or possesses features widely attributed to beauty in a particular culture, for perfection.
Brownian motion: Brownian motion (named after the Scottish botanist Robert Brown) is the seemingly random movement of particles suspended in a fluid (i.e. a liquid or gas) or the mathematical model used to describe such random movements, often called a particle theory. The mathematical model of Brownian motion has several real-world applications. An often quoted example is stock market fluctuations.
Bandy: Bandy (russian hockey) is a team winter sport played on ice, in which skaters use sticks to direct a ball into the opposing team's goal. The rules of the game have many similarities to those of association football: the game is played on a rectangle of ice the same size as a football field. Each team has eleven players, one of whom is a goalkeeper. A standard bandy match consists of two halves of 45 minutes each. The offside rule is also similar to that observed in association football.
Bob Frankston: Robert (Bob) M. Frankston (born June 14, 1949 in Brooklyn New York) is the co-creator with Dan Bricklin of the VisiCalc spreadsheet program and the co-founder of Software Arts, the company that developed it. Frankston graduated in 1966 from Stuyvesant High School in New York City and in 1970 from M.I.T.
Man Booker Prize: The Man Booker Prize for Fiction, also known in short as the Booker Prize, is a literary prize awarded each year for the best original full-length novel, written in the English language, by a citizen of either the Commonwealth of Nations, Ireland, or Zimbabwe. The winner of the Booker Prize is generally assured of international renown and success and, for this reason, the prize is of great significance for the book trade.
Book of Joel: The Book of Joel is part of the Hebrew Bible. Joel is part of a group of twelve prophetic books known as the Minor Prophets or simply as The Twelve; the distinction 'minor' indicates the short length of the text in relation to the larger prophetic texts known as the "Major Prophets".
Amos: Amos may refer to:
Book of Hosea: The Book of Hosea is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible. It stands first in order among what are known as the twelve Minor Prophets.
Book of Micah: The Book of Micah is one of the books of the Hebrew Bible, traditionally attributed to Micah the Prophet.
Book of Obadiah: The Book of Obadiah is found in the Hebrew Bible, where it is the shortest book, only one chapter long. Its authorship is generally attributed to a person named Obadiah, which means servant (or worshipper) of the Lord. Obadiah is classified as a "minor prophet" in the Christian Bible due to the brevity of the writing (only 21 verses) and the content (prophetic material).
Barcelona: Barcelona is the capital and the most populous city of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia and the second largest city in Spain, with a population of 1,615,908 in 2008. It is the 11th-most populous municipality in the European Union and sixth-most populous urban area in the European Union after Paris, London, Rhine-Ruhr Area, Madrid and Milan, with a population of 4,185,000. 5 million people live in the Barcelona metropolitan area.
Book of Jonah: The Book of Jonah is a book in the Hebrew Bible. It tells the story of a Hebrew prophet named Jonah ben Amittai who is sent by God to prophesy the destruction of Nineveh but tries to escape the divine mission. Set in the reign of Jeroboam II (786-746 BCE), it was probably written in the post-exilic period, sometime between the late fifth to early fourth century BC. The story has an interesting interpretive history (see below) and has become well-known through popular childrens stories.
Book of Nahum: The book of Nahum is a book in the Hebrew Bible. It stands seventh in order among what are known as the twelve Minor Prophets.
Book of Zechariah: The Book of Zechariah is a book of the Hebrew Bible attributed to the prophet Zechariah.
Book of Malachi: Malachi (or Malachias, , Malai, M'akh) is a book of the Hebrew Bible, written by the prophet Malachi. Possibly this is not the name of the author, since Malachi means 'my messenger' or 'my angel' in Hebrew. The last of the twelve minor prophets (canonically), the final book of the Hebrew Bible in Christian, but not Jewish tradition is commonly attributed to a prophet by the name of Malachi.
Book of Haggai: The Book of Haggai is a book of the Hebrew Bible, written by the prophet Haggai. It was written in 520 BCE some 18 years after Cyrus had conquered Babylon and issued a decree in 538 BCE allowing the captive Jews to return to Judea. He saw the restoration of the temple as necessary for the restoration of the religious practices and a sense of peoplehood after a long exile. It consists of two simple, comprehensive chapters.
Book of Zephaniah: The superscription of the Book of Zephaniah attributes its authorship to Zephaniah son of Cushi son of Gedaliah son of Amariah son of Hezekiah, in the days of King Josiah son of Atom of Judah. All that is known of Zephaniah comes from the text. The superscription of the book is lengthier than most and contains two features. The name Cushi, Zephaniahs father, means Ethiopian.
Book of Habakkuk: The Book of Habakkuk is the eighth book of the 12 minor prophets of the Hebrew Bible. It is attributed to the prophet Habakkuk, and was probably composed in the late 7th century BCE. A copy of chapters 1 and 2 (of 3) is included in the Habakkuk Commentary, found among the Dead Sea Scrolls. Chapters 1-2 are a dialog between Yahweh and the prophet. The central message, that "the just shall live by his faith", plays an important rule in Christian thought.
Galjoen: The galjoen, black bream, or blackfish, Dichistius capensis, is a species of marine fish that is found only along the coast of South Africa. Length up to 55 cm, weight up to 7 kg. It appears in particular to be partial to the white mussels residing in the sandy beaches and inlets of the rocky outcrops along the southern coast. It is the national fish of South Africa.
Bacterial conjugation: Bacterial conjugation is the transfer of genetic material between bacteria through direct cell to cell contact, or through a bridge-like connection between the two cells. Discovered in 1946 by Joshua Lederberg and Edward Tatum, conjugation is a mechanism of horizontal gene transfer- as are transformation and transduction- although these mechanisms do not involve cell-to-cell contact.
Backward compatibility: In technology, for example in telecommunications and computing, a device or technology is said to be backwards or downwards compatible if it allows input generated by older devices. A standard, for example a data format or a communication protocol, is said to allow backward compatibility, if products designed for the new standard can receive, read, view or play older standards or formats.
Babrak Karmal: Babrak Karmal (6 January 1929 - 1 or 3 December 1996) was the third President of Afghanistan (1979 - 1986) during the period of the communist Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. He is the best known of the Marxist leadership. Having been restored to power with Soviet support, he was unable to consolidate his power and, in 1986, he was replaced by Dr. Mohammad Najibullah. He left Afghanistan for Moscow, where he died in 1996.
Blue Crane: The Blue Crane (Anthropoides paradiseus), also known as the Stanley Crane and the Paradise Crane, is the national bird of South Africa. It is a tall, ground-dwelling bird, but is fairly small by the standards of the crane family. It is 100-120 cm (40-47 in) tall and weighs from 4 to 6.2 kg (8.8-13.6 lbs). This crane is pale blue-gray in colour with a white crown, a pink bill, and long, dark gray wingtip feathers which trail to the ground.
Buddhist philosophy: Buddhist philosophy deals extensively with problems in metaphysics, phenomenology, ethics, and epistemology. Buddhist philosophy does not depend on ontological or metaphysical speculation that is based on empirical evidence gained by the sense organs. Buddha is said to have assumed an unsympathetic attitude toward speculative thought in general. A basic idea of the Buddha is that the world must be thought of in procedural terms, not in terms of things or substances.
Billy Bob Thornton: William Robert "Billy Bob" Thornton (born August 4, 1955) is an American actor, director, musician, playwright and screenwriter. Thornton's early screen roles was as a cast member on the CBS sitcom Hearts Afire and in several early 1990s films including On Deadly Ground and Tombstone. In the mid-1990s, after writing, directing, and starring in the the independent film Sling Blade, he won an Academy Award for Best Writing (Adapted Screenplay).
BIOS: In IBM PC Compatible computers, the basic input/output system (BIOS), also known as the System BIOS, is a de facto standard defining a firmware interface. The BIOS is boot firmware, designed to be the first code run by a PC when powered on. The initial function of the BIOS is to identify, test, and initialize system devices such as the video display card, hard disk, floppy disk and other hardware.
The Big O: The Big O is a Japanese animated television series created by director Kazuyoshi Katayama and designer Keiichi Sato for Sunrise Studios. The writing staff was assembled by the series' head writer, Chiaki J. Konaka. The story takes place forty years after a mysterious occurrence causes the residents of Paradigm City to lose their memories. The series follows Roger Smith, Paradigm City's top Negotiator. He provides this much needed service with the help of an gynoid named R.
B programming language: B is a programming language that was developed at Bell Labs. It is almost extinct, as it was replaced by the C language. It was mostly the work of Ken Thompson with contributions from Dennis Ritchie, and first appeared in 1969 or near that time.
Beer Lambert law: In optics, the Beer-Lambert law, also known as Beer's law or the Lambert-Beer law or the Beer-Lambert-Bouguer law (in fact, most of the permutations of these three names appear somewhere in literature) relates the absorption of light to the properties of the material through which the light is travelling.
The Beach Boys: The Beach Boys are an American rock band, formed in 1961, who gained popularity for their close vocal harmonies and lyrics reflecting a Southern California youth culture of cars, surfing, and romance. Brian Wilson's growing creative ambitions later transformed them into a more artistically innovative group that earned critical praise and influenced many later musicians.
BC: BC or B.C. may refer to: Before Christ, from the Latin Ante Christum, an epoch used in dating years prior to the estimated birth of Jesus.
BCE disambiguation: BCE is a three letter acronym, that may stand for: Before the Common Era, also Before the Current Era, a secular alternative to BC (Before Christ) European Central Bank in some Romance languages (e.g.
Liberal Party UK: The Liberal Party was one of the two major British political parties from the mid 19th century until the rise of the Labour Party in the 1920s, and a third party of varying strength and importance up to 1988, when it merged with the Social Democratic Party (the SDP) to form a new party which would become known as the Liberal Democrats.
Beatrix Potter: Helen Beatrix Potter (28 July 1866 - 22 December 1943) was an English author, illustrator, mycologist and conservationist best known for children's books featuring anthropomorphic characters such as in The Tale of Peter Rabbit. Born into a privileged household, Potter was educated by governesses and grew up isolated from other children.
Social Democratic Party UK: The Social Democratic Party (SDP) was a political party of the United Kingdom that existed nationwide between 1981 and 1988. It was founded by four senior Labour Party 'moderates', dubbed the Gang of Four: Roy Jenkins, David Owen, Bill Rodgers and Shirley Williams.
Bose Einstein condensate: A Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) is a state of matter of a dilute gas of weakly interacting bosons confined in an external potential and cooled to temperatures very near to absolute zero (0 K or &minus;273.15 ). Under such conditions, a large fraction of the bosons occupy the lowest quantum state of the external potential, at which point quantum effects become apparent on a macroscopic scale. This state of matter was first predicted by Satyendra Nath Bose and Albert Einstein in 1924-25.
Bank of England: The Bank of England (formally the Governor and Company of the Bank of England) is, despite its name, the central bank of the whole of the United Kingdom and is the model on which most modern, large central banks have been based. It was established in 1694 to act as the English Government's banker, and to this day it still acts as the banker for HM Government. The Bank was privately owned and operated from its foundation in 1694 until it was nationalised in 1946.
Bean: Bean is a common name for large plant seeds of several genera of the family Fabaceae (alternately Leguminosae) used for human food or animal feed. The whole young pods of bean plants, if picked before the pods ripen and dry, are very tender and may be eaten cooked or raw. Thus the word "green beans" means "green" in the sense of unripe (many are in fact, not green in color), as the beans inside the pods of green beans are too small to comprise a significant part of the cooked fruit.
Breast: The breast is the upper ventral region of an animals torso, particularly that of mammals, including human beings. The breasts of a female primates body contain the mammary glands, which secrete milk used to feed infants. Both men and women develop breasts from the same embryological tissues. However, at puberty, female sex hormones, mainly estrogen, promote breast development which does not occur in men. As a result, women's' breasts become far more prominent than those of men.
Bakelite: Bakelite, or polyoxybenzylmethylenglycolanhydride, is an early plastic. It is a thermosetting phenol formaldehyde resin, formed from an elimination reaction of phenol with formaldehyde, usually with a wood flour filler. It was developed in 1907-1909 by Belgian chemist Dr. Leo Baekeland.
British thermal unit: The British thermal unit (BTU or Btu) is a traditional unit of energy equal to about 1.06 kilojoules. It is approximately the amount of energy needed to heat one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit. It is used in the power, steam generation, heating and air conditioning industries. In scientific contexts the BTU has largely been replaced by the SI unit of energy, the joule (J), though it may be used as a measure of agricultural energy production (BTU/kg).
Outline of biology: Biology is the study of living organisms. It is concerned with the characteristics, classification, and behaviors of organisms, how species come into existence, and the interactions they have with each other and with the environment. Biology encompasses a broad spectrum of academic fields that are often viewed as independent disciplines. However, together they address phenomena related to living organisms (biological phenomena) over a wide range of scales, from biophysics to ecology.
Baghdad: Baghdad, meaning "Given by God (in Persian)", is the capital of Iraq and of Baghdad Governorate, with which it is coterminous. Having a municipal population estimated between 5 and 7.5 million, it is the largest city in Iraq and one of the two largest in the Arab World. Located on the River Tigris, the city dates back to the 8th century and was once the centre of the Muslim world.
Bugatti: Bugatti was founded in Molsheim, France as a manufacturer of high performance automobiles by Ettore Bugatti, an Italian immigrant described as an eccentric genius. The original company is legendary for producing some of the most exclusive cars in the world, as well as some of the fastest. The original Bugatti brand failed with the coming of World War II, like many high-end marques of the time. The death of Ettore's son Jean was also a contributory factor.
Band: Band may refer to:
Black Death: The Black Death was one of the deadliest pandemics in human history, peaking in Europe between 1348 and 1350. It is widely thought to have been an outbreak of bubonic plague caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis, but this view has recently been challenged. Usually thought to have started in Central Asia, it had reached the Crimea by 1346.
Battle of Poitiers 1356: The Battle of Poitiers was fought between the Kingdoms of England and France on 19 September 1356 near Poitiers, resulting in the second of the three great English victories of the Hundred Years' War: Cry, Poitiers, and Agincourt.
Biotechnology: Biotechnology is a field of biology that involves the use of living things in engineering, technology, medicine, etc.. Modern use of the term refers to genetic engineering as well as cell- and tissue culture technologies.
Bongo antelope: The western or lowland bongo, Tragelaphus eurycerus eurycerus, is a herbivorous, mostly nocturnal forest ungulate and among the largest of the African forest antelope species. Bongos are characterised by a striking reddish-brown coat, black and white markings, white-yellow stripes and long slightly spiralled horns. Indeed, bongos are the only Tragelaphid in which both sexes have horns. Bongos have a complex social interaction and are found in African dense forest mosaics.
Benchmark: The term benchmark originates from the chiseled horizontal marks that surveyors made, into which an angle-iron could be placed to bracket ("bench") a leveling rod, thus ensuring that the levelling rod can be repositioned in exactly the same place in the future. Benchmark may refer to:
Bunyip: The bunyip or kianpraty is a large mythical creature from Aboriginal mythology, said to lurk in swamps, billabongs, creeks, riverbeds, and s. The origin of the word bunyip has been traced to the Wemba-Wemba language of Aboriginal people of South-Eastern Australia. However, the bunyip appears to have formed part of traditional Aboriginal beliefs and stories throughout Australia, although its name varied according to tribal nomenclature.
Backbone cabal: The backbone cabal was a group of large-site administrators who pushed through the Great Renaming of Usenet newsgroups during most of the 1980s. Credit for organizing the backbone about 1983 is variously claimed for Mark Horton or Gene "Spaf" Spafford, in an effort to stabilize the Usenet propagation. While many news servers operated during night time to save the cost of long distance communication, servers of the backbone cabal were available 24 hours a day.
Boone North Carolina: Boone is a town located in the Blue Ridge Mountains of western North Carolina, USA. Boone is the county seat of Watauga County and the home of Appalachian State University. The town is named for famous pioneer and explorer Daniel Boone, and every summer since 1952 has hosted an outdoor amphitheatre portrayal of the life and times of its namesake. A statue of Boone (photograph below) is located on the Appalachian State campus near the "duck pond".
Transgenic maize: Transgenic maize has been deliberately genetically modified to have agronomically desirable traits. Traits that have been engineered into corn include resistance to herbicides and resistance to insect pests, the latter being achieved by incorporation of a gene that codes for the Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) toxin. Hybrids with both herbicide and pest resistance have also been produced.
Banshee: The Banshee, from the Irish bean sdhe [b i] ("woman of the '" or "woman of the fairy mounds") is a female spirit in Irish mythology, usually seen as an omen of death and a messenger from the Otherworld. Her Scottish counterpart is the bean shth (also spelled bean-shdh). The aos s (people of the mounds, people of peace) are variously believed to be the survivals of pre-Christian Gaelic deities, spirits of nature, or the ancestors.
Battle of the Somme disambiguation: Battle of the Somme commonly refers to the major Anglo-French offensive in 1916 during World War I; however, the postwar Battles Nomenclature Committee divided this campaign into a series of battles (listed in the article above).
Boudica: Boudica (also spelled Boudicca), formerly known as Boadicea and known in Welsh as "Buddug") (d. AD 60 or 61) was a queen of the Brittonic Iceni tribe of what is now known as East Anglia in England, who led an uprising of the tribes against the occupying forces of the Roman Empire. Boudica's husband, Prasutagus, an Icenian king who had ruled as a nominally independent ally of Rome, left his kingdom jointly to his daughters and the Roman Emperor in his will.
Borneo: Borneo is the third largest island in the world, located at the centre of Maritime Southeast Asia.
Body substance isolation: Body substance isolation is a practice of isolating all body substances of individuals undergoing medical treatment, particularly emergency medical treatment of those who might be infected with illnessess such as HIV, or hepatitis so as to reduce as much as possible the chances of transmitting these illnesses. BSI is similar in nature to universal precautions, but goes further in isolating workers from pathogens, including substances not currently known to carry HIV.
Ballpoint pen: A ballpoint pen is a modern writing instrument. A ballpoint pen has an internal chamber filled with a viscous ink that is dispensed at tip during use by the rolling action of a small metal sphere (0.7 mm to 1.2 mm in diameter) of brass, steel or tungsten carbide.
Brick: A brick is a block of ceramic material used in masonry construction, usually laid using mortar.
Burroughs Corporation: The Burroughs Corporation was a major American manufacturer of business equipment. The company was founded in 1886 as the American Arithmometer Company and was assimilated in the 1986 merger that resulted in the creation of Unisys. The company's history paralleled many of the major developments in computing. At its start it produced mechanical adding machines, and later moved into programmable ledgers and then computers.
Bipolar spectrum: The Bipolar spectrum (BS) refers to a category of mood disorders that feature abnormally elevated mood. These disorders range from Bipolar I disorder, featuring full-blown manic episodes, to cyclothymia, featuring less prominent hypomanic episodes, to "subsyndromal" conditions where only some of the criteria for mania or hypomania are met.
Bill Haley: Bill Haley (July 6, 1925 - February 9, 1981) was one of the first American rock and roll musicians. He is credited by many with first popularizing this form of music in the early 1950s with his group Bill Haley & His Comets and their hit song "Rock Around the Clock".
B la Bart k: Ba Viktor Jos Bart (March 25, 1881 - September 26, 1945) was a Hungarian composer and pianist. He is considered to be one of the greatest composers of the 20th century and is regarded, along with Liszt, as his country's greatest composer (Gillies 2001). Through his collection and analytical study of folk music, he was one of the founders of ethnomusicology.
Northern Bobwhite: The Northern Bobwhite, Virginia Quail or (in its home range) Bobwhite Quail (Colinus virginianus) is a ground-dwelling bird native to the United States, Mexico, and the Caribbean. It is a member of the group of species known as New World quails (Odontophoridae). They were initially placed with the Old World quails in the pheasant family, but are not particularly closely related. The name "bobwhite" derives from its characteristic whistling call.
Bipolar disorder: Bipolar disorder or manic-depressive disorder (also referred to as bipolar affective disorder or manic depression) is a psychiatric diagnosis that describes a category of mood disorders defined by the presence of one or more episodes of abnormally elevated mood. These moods are clinically referred to as mania or, if milder, hypomania.
Blitz: Blitz, German for "lightning" or "the flash at a photocamera", may refer to:
Burt Lancaster: Burton Stephen "Burt" Lancaster (November 2, 1913 - October 20, 1994) was an American film actor and star, noted for his athletic physique, distinct smile (which he called "The Grin") and, later, his willingness to play roles that went against his initial "tough guy" image. Initially dismissed as "Mr Muscles and Teeth", in the late 1950s Lancaster abandoned his "all-American" image and gradually came to be regarded as one of the best actors of his generation.
Burnt-in timecode: Burnt-in timecode (often abbreviated to BITC by analogy to VITC) is a human-readable on-screen version of the timecode information for a piece of material superimposed on a video image. BITC is sometimes used in conjunction with "real" machine-readable timecode, but more often used in copies of original material on to a non-broadcast format such as VHS, so that the VHS copies can be traced back to their master tape and the original time codes easily located.
Bra-ket notation: Bra-ket notation is a standard notation for describing quantum states in the theory of quantum mechanics composed of angle brackets and vertical bars. It can also be used to denote abstract vectors and linear functionals in pure mathematics. It is so called because the inner product of two states is denoted by a bracket,, consisting of a left part,, called the bra, and a right part,, called the ket. The notation was introduced in 1939 by Paul Dirac, and is also known as Dirac notation.
Blind Willie McTell: Blind Willie McTell (May 5, 1898 - August 19, 1959) was an influential American blues singer, songwriter, and guitarist. He was a twelve-string finger picking Piedmont blues guitarist, and recorded 149 songs between 1927 and 1956.
Blue: Blue is a colour, the perception of which is evoked by light having a spectrum dominated by energy with a wavelength of roughly 440-490 nm. It is considered one of the additive primary colours. On the HSV Colour Wheel, the complement of blue is yellow; that is, a colour corresponding to an equal mixture of red and green light. On a colour wheel based on traditional colour theory, the complementary colour to blue is considered to be orange (based on the Munsell colour wheel).
Balts: The Balts or Baltic peoples (People who live by the Baltic Sea), defined as speakers of one of the Baltic languages, a branch of the Indo-European language family, are descended from a group of Indo-European tribes who settled the area between lower Vistula and upper Daugava and Dnieper rivers on the southeast shore of the Baltic Sea. One of the features of Baltic languages is the number of conservative or archaic features retained.
Bash Unix shell: Bash is a free software Unix shell written for the GNU Project. Its name is an acronym which stands for Bourne-again shell. The name is a pun on the name of the Bourne shell (sh), an early and important Unix shell written by Stephen Bourne and distributed with Version 7 Unix circa 1978, and the phrase born again. Bash was created in 1987 by Brian Fox. In 1990 Chet Ramey became the primary maintainer. Bash is a POSIX shell with a number of extensions.
Blizzard: A blizzard is a severe storm condition characterized by low temperatures, strong winds, and heavy snow. By definition, the difference between blizzard and a snowstorm is the strength of the wind. Ground blizzards are a variation on the traditional blizzard, in that ground blizzards require high winds to stir up snow that has already fallen, rather than fresh snowfall. Regardless of the variety of blizzard, they can bring near-whiteout conditions, which restrict visibility to near zero.
BDSM: BDSM is a form of consensual roleplay between two or more individuals, who use their experiences of pain and power to create sexual tension, pleasure, and release. The compound acronym, BDSM, is derived from the terms bondage and discipline (B&D, B/D, or BD), dominance and submission (D&s, D/s, or Ds), sadism and masochism (S&M, S/M, or SM). BDSM includes a wide spectrum of activities, forms of interpersonal relationships, and distinct subcultures.
Babur: Zahir ud-din Muhammad Babur (February 23 1483 January 5 1531) was a Muslim conqueror from Central Asia, Uzbekistan, Andijan who, following a series of setbacks, finally succeeded in laying the basis for the Mughal dynasty of India. He was a direct descendant of Timur through his father, and a descendant also of Genghis Khan through his mother.
Bernard of Clairvaux: Bernard of Clairvaux, O. Cist (1090 - August 20, 1153) was a Frankish abbot and the primary builder of the reforming Cistercian monastic order. After the death of his mother, Bernard sought admission into the Cistercian order. Three years later, he was sent to found a new abbey at an isolated clearing in a glen known as the Val d'Absinthe, about 15 km southeast of Bar-sur-Aube.
Bikini: The bikini or two piece is a women's swimsuit with two parts, one covering the breasts, the other the groin (and optionally the buttocks), leaving an uncovered area between the two (optionally in the case of the Tankini). It is often worn in hot weather or while swimming. The shapes of both parts of a bikini resemble women's underwear, and the lower part can range from revealing thong or g-string to briefs and modest square-cut shorts.
Braveheart: Braveheart is a 1995 American epic/drama film directed by, produced by, and starring Mel Gibson. The film was written for the screen and then novelized by Randall Wallace.
Brian Aldiss: Brian Wilson Aldiss, OBE (born 18 August 1925) is an English author of both general fiction and science fiction. His byline reads either Brian W. Aldiss or simply Brian Aldiss. Greatly influenced by science fiction pioneer H. G. Wells, Aldiss is a vice-president of the international H. G. Wells Society. He is also co-president of the Birmingham Science Fiction Group. His writings have been compared to those of Isaac Asimov, Greg Bear and Arthur C. Clarke.
Bambara language: Bambara, also known as Bamanankan in the language itself (literally "the language of the Bamanan"), is a language spoken in Mali by as many as six million people (including second language users). The Bambara language is the mother tongue of the Bambara ethnic group, numbering about 2,700,000 people, but serves also as a lingua franca in Mali (it is estimated that about 80% of the population speaks it as a first or second language). It is an SOV language and has two tones.
Battle of Jutland: The Battle of Jutland; informally known by participants as Der Tag (The Day), was the largest naval battle of World War I, and the only full-scale clash of battleships in that war. It was the third major fleet action between steel battleships, following the battles of the Yellow Sea, and Tsushima during the Russo-Japanese War. It was fought on 31 May - 1 June 1916, in the North Sea near Jutland, Denmark.
Bishkek: Bishkek, formerly Pishpek and Frunze, is the capital and the largest city of Kyrgyzstan. Bishkek is also the administrative centre of Chuy Province which surrounds the city, even though the city itself is not part of the province but rather a province-level unit of Kyrgyzstan. The name is thought to derive from a Kyrgyz word for a churn used to make fermented mare's milk, the Kyrgyz national drink.
Balalaika: The balalaika (also Balabaika, ) is a stringed instrument of Russian origin, with a characteristic triangular body and 3 strings (or sometimes 6, in 3 courses). The balalaika family of instruments includes, from the highest-pitched to the lowest, the prima balalaika, sekunda balalaika, alto balalaika, bass balalaika and contrabass balalaika. All have three-sided bodies, spruce or fir tops and backs made of from three to nine wooden sections, and all have three strings.
Blind Lemon Jefferson: "Blind" Lemon Jefferson (September 24, 1893 - at some point in Mid-December, 1929) was a blues singer and guitarist from Texas. He was one of the most popular blues singers of the 1920s, and has been titled "Father of the Texas Blues". Jefferson's singing and self-accompaniment were distinctive as a result of his high-pitched voice and originality on the guitar.
Baku: Baku, sometimes known as Baqy, Baky, Baki or Bakou, is the capital, the largest city, and the largest port of Azerbaijan and all the Caucasus. Located on the southern shore of the Absheron Peninsula, the city consists of two principal parts: the downtown and the old Inner City. Baku is one of the oldest and biggest cities in East for antiquity, territory and population. Its urban population in the beginning of 2009 was estimated at 2.0397 million people.
Baku spirit: Baku are Japanese supernatural beings that devour dreams and nightmares. They have a long history in Japanese folklore and art, and more recently have appeared in Japanese anime and manga (see examples cited below). The Japanese term baku has two current meanings, referring to both the traditional dream-devouring creature and to the zoological tapir (e.g. , the Malaysian tapir). In recent years, there have been changes in how the baku is depicted.
Bugzilla: Bugzilla is a Web-based general-purpose bugtracker and testing tool originally developed and used by the Mozilla project, and licensed under the Mozilla Public License. Released as open source software by Netscape Communications in 1998, it has been adopted by a variety of organizations for use as a defect tracker for both free and open source software and proprietary products.
Blackbeard: Edward Teach or Edward Thatch (c. 1680 - November 22, 1718), better known as Blackbeard, was a notorious English pirate who operated around the West Indies and the eastern coast of the American colonies during the early 1700s. Teach was most likely born in Bristol, England. Little is known about his early life, but he probably joined the crew of Benjamin Hornigold in 1716, a pirate who operated from the Caribbean island of New Providence.
Bank of China Tower Hong Kong: The Bank of China Tower (abbreviated BOC Tower) is one of the most recognisable skyscrapers in Central, Hong Kong. It houses the headquarters for the Bank of China (Hong Kong) Limited. The building is located at 1 Garden Road, in Central and Western District on Hong Kong Island. Designed by I. M. Pei, the building is 305 m (1,000.7 ft) high with two masts reaching 367.4 m (1,205.4 ft) high.
Ballad: A ballad is a form of verse, often a narrative and set to music. Ballads were particularly characteristic of British and Irish popular poetry and song from the later medieval period until the 19th century and used extensively across Europe and later North America, Australia and North Africa. Many ballads were written and sold as single sheet broadsides. The form was often used by poets and composers from the 18th century onwards to produce lyrical ballads.
Bacterial vaginosis: Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is the most common cause of vaginal infection. It is less commonly referred to as vaginal bacteriosis. It is not considered to be a sexually transmitted infection (see causes below). BV is caused by an imbalance of naturally occurring bacterial flora, and should not be confused with yeast infection, or infection with Trichomonas vaginalis which are not caused by bacteria.
Blue yster Cult: Blue ster Cult is an American rock band formed in New York in 1967 and still active in 2010. The group is especially well known for songs including "(Don't Fear) The Reaper", "Astronomy", "Godzilla", "Burnin' for You" and "Cities on Flame with Rock and Roll. " They have sold over 14 million albums worldwide, including 7 million in the US alone.
Battery Park City: Battery Park City is a 92-acre (0.4 km) planned community at the southwestern tip of lower Manhattan in New York City, United States. The land upon which it stands was created on the Hudson River using 1.2 million cubic yards (917,000 m) of dirt and rocks excavated during the construction of the World Trade Center and certain other construction projects, as well as from sand dredged from New York Harbor off Staten Island.
Bud Selig: Allan Huber "Bud" Selig
Bison: Members of the genus Bison are large even-toed ungulates within the subfamily Bovinae. Two extant species and four extinct species are recognized. The surviving species are the American bison, Bison bison (with two subspecies, the plains bison, Bison bison bison, and the wood bison, Bison bison athabascae), found in North America, and the European bison, or wisent (Bison bonasus), found in Europe and the Caucasus.
Braille embosser: A Braille embosser is a printer, necessarily an impact printer, that renders text as Braille. Using special translation software, a print document can be embossed with relative ease, making Braille production much more efficient and cost-effective. Blind users tend to call other printers ink printers, to distinguish them from their Braille counterparts. This is often the case regardless of the type of printer being discussed.
Baryon: Baryons are the family of composite particles made of three quarks, as opposed to the mesons which are the family of composite particles made of one quark and one antiquark. Both baryons and mesons are part of the larger particle family comprising all particles made of quarksthe hadrons. The term baryon is derived from the Greek (barys), meaning "heavy", because at the time of their naming it was believed that baryons were characterized by having greater masses than other particles.
Block cipher: In cryptography, a block cipher is a symmetric key cipher operating on fixed-length groups of bits, called blocks, with an unvarying transformation. A block cipher encryption algorithm might take (for example) a 128-bit block of plaintext as input, and output a corresponding 128-bit block of ciphertext. The exact transformation is controlled using a second input - the secret key.
Basic Role-Playing: Basic Role-Playing (BRP) is a role-playing game system which originated in the fantasy-oriented RuneQuest role-playing game rules. A percentile skill-based system, BRP was used as the basis for most of the games published by Chaosium, including Stormbringer, Worlds of Wonder, Call of Cthulhu, Superworld, Ringworld, Elfquest, Hawkmoon, Elric!, and Nephilim.
Bj rn Borg: Bjn Rune Borg (born 6 June 1956) is a former World No. 1 tennis player from Sweden; he won a record five consecutive Wimbledon singles titles and is considered to be one of the greatest tennis players of all time. During his relatively brief pro career, Borg won 41 percent of the Grand Slam singles tournaments he entered (11 of 27) and 89.8 percent of the Grand Slam singles matches he played. Both are open era male records for an entire career.
Booch method: The Booch method is a technique used in software engineering. It is an object modeling language and methodology that was widely used in object-oriented analysis and design. It was developed by Grady Booch, while at Rational Software (now part of IBM).
Battle of Cape St. Vincent: Six naval battles have taken place near Cape St. Vincent on the southern coast of Portugal, near the Strait of Gibraltar: The Battle of Cape St. Vincent (1681) was a victory of a Spanish fleet under Marquess of Villafiel over a Brandenburguese squadron under Thomas Alders The Battle of Cape St. Vincent (1693) took place during the Nine Years War The Battle of Cape St.
Wireless broadband: Wireless Broadband is a fairly new technology that provides high-speed wireless internet and data network access over a wide area.
Barnabas: Saint Barnabas of the first century, born Joseph, was an Early Christian convert, one of the earliest Christian disciples in Jerusalem. Like almost all Christians at the time, Barnabas was Jewish, specifically a Levite. Named an apostle in Acts 14:14, he and Saint Paul undertook missionary journeys together and defended Gentile converts against the demands of stricter church leaders.
Battle of the Nile: The Battle of the Nile (also known as the Battle of Aboukir Bay, in French as the Bataille d'Aboukir or in Arabic as ) was a major naval battle fought between British and French fleets at Aboukir Bay on the Mediterranean coast of Egypt from 1-3 August 1798.
Beta-lactamase: Beta-lactamases are enzymes produced by some bacteria and are responsible for their resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics like penicillins, cephalosporins (are relatively resistant to beta-lactamase), cephamycins, and carbapenems. These antibiotics have a common element in their molecular structure: a four-atom ring known as a beta-lactam. The lactamase enzyme breaks that ring open, deactivating the molecule's antibacterial properties.
Birka: This is about a Viking-age trading center in Sweden. For other meanings see Birka. During the Viking Age, Birka listen (Birca in medieval sources), on the island of Bjk in Sweden, was an important trading center which handled goods from Scandinavia as well as Central and Eastern Europe and the Orient. Bjk is located in Lake Maren, 30 kilometers West of Stockholm, in the municipality of Eker.
Burhanuddin Rabbani: Burhanuddin Rabbani (b. 1940), is a former President of Afghanistan.
Battle of Agincourt: The Battle of Agincourt was a major English victory against a larger French army in the Hundred Years' War. The battle occurred on Friday 25 October 1415, in northern France. Henry V's victory, which brought France to her knees, started a new period in the war, in which Henry married the French king's daughter and his son was made heir to the throne of France, but his achievement was squandered by his heirs, notably Henry VI.
Boeing 747: The Boeing 747 is a widebody commercial airliner, often referred to by the nickname Jumbo Jet. It is among the world's most recognizable aircraft, and was the first widebody ever produced. Manufactured by Boeing's Commercial Airplane unit in the United States, the original version of the 747 was two and a half times the size of the Boeing 707, one of the common large commercial aircraft of the 1960s. First flown commercially in 1970, the 747 held the passenger capacity record for 37 years.
Burgundian: Burgundian can refer to any of the following: Burgundians, an East Germanic tribe, who first appear in history in South East Europe. Later Burgundians colonised the area of Gaul that is now know as Burgundy (French Bourgogne). The Old Burgundian language, an East Germanic language spoken by the Burgundians. The Modern Burgundian language, an Ol language also known as Bourguignon spoken in the region of Burgundy. It is one of the Dialects or Languages of France.
Bronze Age: The Bronze Age of a culture is the period when the most advanced metalworking (at least in systematic and widespread use) in that culture used bronze. This could either have been based on the local smelting of copper and tin from ores, or trading for bronze from production areas elsewhere. Many, though not all, Bronze Age cultures flourished in prehistory. The naturally occurring ores typically included arsenic as a common impurity.
Broadway New York City: Broadway, as the name implies, is a wide avenue in New York City, which runs the full length of Manhattan and continues into the Bronx. It is the oldest north-south main thoroughfare in the city, dating to the first New Amsterdam settlement. The name Broadway is the English literal translation of the Dutch name, Breede weg. A stretch of Broadway is famous as the pinnacle of the American theater industry.
BBC News TV channel: BBC News (also referred to as the BBC News Channel) is the BBC's 24 hour rolling news television channel in the United Kingdom. The channel launched as BBC News 24 on 9 November 1997 at 17:30 as part of the BBC's foray into digital domestic television channels, becoming the first competitor to Sky News, which had been running since 1989.
Bill Oddie: William Edgar "Bill" Oddie, OBE is an English author, actor, comedian, artist, naturalist and musician, who first became famous as one of The Goodies. An ornithologist since childhood, Oddie has now established a reputation for himself as an ornithologist, conservationist and television presenter on wildlife issues. Some of his books are illustrated with his own paintings and drawings.
Bilinear transform: The bilinear transform (also known as Tustin's method) is used in digital signal processing and discrete-time control theory to transform continuous-time system representations to discrete-time and vice versa.
Political scandals in the United Kingdom: Political scandals in the United Kingdom are commonly referred to by the press and commentators as "'sleaze".
Brian Boitano: Brian Anthony Boitano (born October 22, 1963) is an American figure skater from Sunnyvale, California. He is the 1988 Olympic champion, the 1986 & 1988 World Champion, and the 1985-1988 U.S. National Champion. He turned professional following the 1988 season. He returned to competition in 1993 and competed at the 1994 Winter Olympics, where he placed sixth.
Bombardier Inc.: Bombardier Inc. is a Canadian conglomerate, founded by Joseph-Armand Bombardier as L'Auto-Neige Bombardier Limit in 1942, at Valcourt in the Eastern Townships, Quebec. Over the years it has been a large manufacturer of regional aircraft, business jets, mass transportation equipment, recreational equipment and a financial services provider. Bombardier is a Fortune Global 500 conglomerate company. Its headquarters are in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Break key: The break key on computer keyboards origins go back to telegraph practices. A standard telegraph key has a built-in knife switch that can be used to short the key's contacts. When the key was not in use, that switch was kept closed, so that a signal was continually sent.
British Steel: British Steel was a major British steel producer. It originated as a nationalised industry, the British Steel Corporation (BSC), formed in 1967. This was converted to a limited company, British Steel PLC, and privatised in 1988. It was once a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index but following mergers, the business is now owned by Corus, a Tata Steel company.
BT Group: BT Group plc (formerly British Telecommunications plc, abbreviated to BT or British Telecom, and still occasionally referred to as such) is the privatised former state telecommunications operator in the United Kingdom. It is the dominant fixed line telecommunications and broadband Internet provider in the UK, and also operates in more than 170 countries around the world. It is headquartered in the BT Centre in the City of London.
Breton language: The Breton language (Brezhoneg) is a Celtic language spoken in Brittany (Breizh/Bretagne), France.
Balmoral Castle: Balmoral Castle is a large estate house situated in the area of Aberdeenshire, Scotland, known as Royal Deeside. The estate was purchased by Queen Victoria's consort Prince Albert, and remains a favourite summer royal residence. The Balmoral estate has been passed down the generations and has gradually expanded to more than 26,000 hectares. Today it is a working estate, employing 50 full time staff and 50 to 100 part time.
Bogie: A bogie is a wheeled wagon or trolley. In mechanics terms, a bogie is a chassis or framework carrying wheels, attached to a vehicle. It can be fixed in place, as on a cargo truck, mounted on a swivel, as on a railway carriage or locomotive, or sprung as in the suspension of a caterpillar tracked vehicle.
Broch: A Broch is an Iron Age drystone hollow-walled structure of a type found only in Scotland. Brochs include some of the most sophisticated examples of drystone architecture ever created, and belong to the classification "complex Atlantic Roundhouse" devised by Scottish archaeologists in the 1980s. Their origin is a matter of some controversy.
Billy Crystal: William Edward "Billy" Crystal (born March 14, 1948) is an American actor, writer, producer, comedian and film director. He gained prominence in the 1970s for playing Jodie Dallas on the ABC sitcom Soap and became a Hollywood film star during the late 1980s and 1990s, appearing in the critical and box office successes When Harry Met Sally... and City Slickers. Additionally, he has hosted the Academy Awards eight times.
Black hole: According to the general theory of relativity, a black hole is a region of space from which nothing, including light, can escape. It is the result of the deformation of spacetime caused by a very compact mass. Around a black hole there is an undetectable surface which marks the point of no return, called an event horizon. It is called "black" because it absorbs all the light that hits it, reflecting nothing, just like a perfect black body in thermodynamics.
The Beano: The Beano is a British children's comic, published by D.C. Thomson & Co. Ltd and is possibly their most successful. The comic first appeared on 26 July 1938 and was published weekly. During the Second World War, The Beano and The Dandy were published on alternating weeks due to paper and ink rationing. D.C. Thomson's other publications also suffered with the Oor Wullie and The Broons annuals falling victim to paper and ink shortages.
Blitzkrieg: Blitzkrieg (German, "lightning war") is a headline and anglicized word describing all-mechanized force concentration of tanks, infantry, artillery and air power, concentrating overwhelming force and rapid speed to break through enemy lines, and once the latter is broken, proceeding without regard to its flank.
Bee: Bees are flying insects closely related to wasps and ants, and are known for their role in pollination and for producing honey and beeswax. Bees are a monophyletic lineage within the superfamily Apoidea, presently classified by the unranked taxon name Anthophila. There are nearly 20,000 known species of bees in seven to nine recognized families, though many are undescribed and the actual number is probably higher.
Basque people: The Basques are the native people of the Basque Country. The Basques as an ethnic group primarily inhabit an area traditionally known as the Basque Country, a region that is located around the western end of the Pyrenees on the coast of the Bay of Biscay and straddles parts of north-eastern Spain and south-western France.
Blot: Blot may refer to: Blot (biology), method of transferring proteins, DNA, RNA or a protein onto a carrier. The following types are known: Southern blot to recognize DNA Northern blot to recognize RNA Western blot to recognize proteins Eastern blotting to recognize posttranslational modifications Southwestern blot In the board game backgammon a blot is an unprotected checker.
Bookkeeping: Bookkeeping is the recording of financial transactions. Transactions include sales, purchases, income, and payments by an individual or organization. Bookkeeping is usually performed by a bookkeeper. Bookkeeping should not be confused with accounting. The accounting process is usually performed by an accountant. The accountant creates reports from the recorded financial transactions recorded by the bookkeeper.
B zier curve: In the mathematical field of numerical analysis, a Bier curve is a parametric curve important in computer graphics and related fields. Generalizations of Bier curves to higher dimensions are called Bier surfaces, of which the Bier triangle is a special case. Bier curves were widely publicized in 1962 by the French engineer Pierre Bier, who used them to design automobile bodies.
Beta decay: In nuclear physics, beta decay is a type of radioactive decay in which a beta particle is emitted. In the case of electron emission, it is referred to as beta minus (&beta), while in the case of a positron emission as beta plus (&beta). Kinetic energy of beta particles has continuous spectrum ranging from 0 to maximal available energy, which depends on parent and daughter nuclear states participating in the decay. Typical Q is around 1 MeV, but it can range from a few keV to a few tens of MeV.
Banach algebra: In mathematics, especially functional analysis, a Banach algebra, named after Stefan Banach, is an associative algebra A over the real or complex numbers which at the same time is also a Banach space. The algebra multiplication and the Banach space norm are required to be related by the following inequality: (i.e. , the norm of the product is less than or equal to the product of the norms. ) This ensures that the multiplication operation is continuous.
Boris Pasternak: Boris Leonidovich Pasternak (10 February 1890 - 30 May 1960) was a Nobel Prize-winning Russian and Soviet poet, novelist and translator of Goethe and Shakespeare. In Russia, Pasternak is most celebrated as a poet. My Sister Life, written in 1917, is arguably the most influential collection of poetry published in the Russian language in the 20th century.
Binomial coefficient: In mathematics, the binomial coefficient is the coefficient of the x term in the polynomial expansion of the binomial power (1 + x). In combinatorics, is interpreted as the number of k-element subsets of an n-element set, that is the number of ways that k things can be "chosen" from a set of n things. Hence, is often read as "n choose k" and is called the choose function of n and k.
Bill Holbrook: Bill Holbrook is an American comic strip & webcomic writer and artist. He is a 1980 graduate of Auburn University. Holbrook draws three strips: On the Fastrack . Safe Havens, syndicated nationally in the USA. Kevin and Kell, originally an online-only strip but now also published in the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. He says that every week he writes the story line for the next three weeks for one of his strips and draws the next three weeks' worth of strips for another.
Bruce Campbell: Bruce Lorne Campbell (born June 22, 1958) is an American actor, producer, writer, and director. Bruce has had an extensive working relationship with director Sam Raimi, starring as Ash in Raimi's Evil Dead trilogy of horror-slapstick. He is currently starring as Sam Axe in Burn Notice on the USA Network.
Baron Aberdare: Baron Aberdare, of Duffryn in the County of Glamorgan, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 23 August 1873 for the Liberal politician Henry Bruce. He served as Home Secretary from 1868 to 1873. His grandson, the third Baron, was a soldier, cricketer and tennis player and a member of the International Olympic Committee. His son, the fourth Baron, held office in the Conservative administration of Edward Heath and was later a Deputy Speaker of the House of Lords.
B-tree: In computer science, a B-tree is a tree data structure that keeps data sorted and allows searches, sequential access, insertions, and deletions in logarithmic amortized time. The B-tree is a generalization of a binary search tree in that more than two paths diverge from a single node. Unlike self-balancing binary search trees, the B-tree is optimized for systems that read and write large blocks of data. It is most commonly used in databases and filesystems.
Boy band: A boy band (or boyband), in pop, hip hop and R&B music, is a popular music act consisting of several male singers. There are usually three, four, five or six members of a boy band. The members are generally expected to perform as dancers as well, often executing highly choreographed sequences to their own music. More often than not, boy band members do not play musical instruments, either in recording sessions or on stage, and only sing and dance.
Binomial theorem: In elementary algebra, the binomial theorem describes the algebraic expansion of powers of a binomial. According to the theorem, it is possible to expand the power (x + y) into a sum involving terms of the form axy, where the coefficient of each term is a positive integer, and the sum of the exponents of x and y in each term is n. For example, The coefficients appearing in the binomial expansion are known as binomial coefficients.
British Museum: The British Museum is a museum of human history and culture in London. Its collections, which number more than seven million objects, are amongst the largest and most comprehensive in the world and originate from all continents, illustrating and documenting the story of human culture from its beginning to the present. The British Museum was established in 1753, largely based on the collections of the physician and scientist Sir Hans Sloane.
Bloody Sunday: Bloody Sunday may refer to: Events Bloody Sunday (1887), a demonstration in London, England against British repression in Ireland. Bloody Sunday (1900), a day of high casualties in the Second Boer War, South Africa. Bloody Sunday (1905), a massacre in Saint Petersburg, Russia that led to the 1905 Russian Revolution. Everett massacre (1916), violence in Washington, United States between trade union members and local authorities.
Boxing Day: Boxing Day is a bank and public holiday commonly occurring on the 26th of December. It is observed in the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Ghana, Switzerland, Germany, Greenland, Netherlands, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Nigeria, Guyana, Trinidad & Tobago, Jamaica and countries in the Commonwealth of Nations with a mainly Christian population. In South Africa this public holiday is now known as the Day of Goodwill.
Balsall Heath: Balsall Heath is a working class, inner-city area of Birmingham, England. It is home to a diverse cultural mix including Arabs, Afro-Caribbean, Turks, Indian, Pakistani, Kashmiri, Irish and English, and the home of the Balti Triangle, a collection of Asian Balti restaurants and sweet centres.
Balochistan Pakistan: Balochistan is the largest province by geographical area of Pakistan, constituting approximately 43% of the total area of Pakistan. At the 1998 census, Balochistan had a population of roughly 6.5 million. Covering a sizable portion of the country, it is Pakistan's largest province, as well as its poorest and least populated. Its neighbouring regions are Iran to the west, Afghanistan and the North-West Frontier Province to the north, Punjab and Sindh provinces to the east.
William M. Tweed: William Magear Tweed (April 3, 1823 - April 12, 1878), sometimes erroneously named William Marcy Tweed, known as "Boss" Tweed, was an American politician most famous for his leadership of Tammany Hall, the Democratic Party political machine that played a major role in the politics of 19th century New York.
Bunge y Born: Bunge y Born was a multinational corporation based in Buenos Aires, Argentina, whose diverse interests included food processing and international trade in grains and oilseeds. It is now known as Bunge Limited.
Big Apple: The Big Apple is a nickname or moniker for New York City. It was first popularized in the 1920s by John J. Fitz Gerald, a sports writer for the New York Morning Telegraph. Its popularity since the 1970s is due to a promotional campaign by the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, known now as NYC & Company.
Boston Corbett: Thomas P. "Boston" Corbett (1832 - presumed dead 1894) was the Union Army soldier who shot and killed Abraham Lincoln's assassin, John Wilkes Booth. He disappeared after 1888, but circumstantial evidence suggests that he died in the Great Hinckley Fire in 1894, although this remains impossible to substantiate.
Bankruptcy: Bankruptcy is a legally declared inability or impairment of ability of an individual or organization to pay its creditors. Creditors may file a bankruptcy petition against a debtor in an effort to recoup a portion of what they are owed or initiate a restructuring. In the majority of cases, however, bankruptcy is initiated by the debtor (a "voluntary bankruptcy" that is filed by the insolvent individual or organization).
Berber languages: The Berber languages are a group of very closely related and similar languages and dialects spoken in Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, and the Egyptian area of Siwa, as well as by large Berber communities in parts of Niger and Mali. A relatively sparse but very old population extends into the whole Sahara and the northern part of the Sahel. Berber belongs to the Afroasiatic languages phylum.
Blissymbols: Blissymbols or Blissymbolics were conceived of as an ideographic writing system consisting of several hundred basic symbols, each representing a concept, which can be composed together to generate new symbols that represent new concepts. Blissymbols differ from all the world's major writing systems in that the characters do not correspond at all to the sounds of any spoken language.
Bessel function: In mathematics, Bessel functions, first defined by the mathematician Daniel Bernoulli and generalized by Friedrich Bessel, are canonical solutions y(x) of Bessel's differential equation: for an arbitrary real or complex number (the order of the Bessel function). The most common and important special case is where is an integer n. Although and &minus; produce the same differential equation, it is conventional to define different Bessel functions for these two orders (e.g.
Brahui language: Brahui () or Brahvi is a language spoken by Brahui people of Pakistan. It is the only Dravidian language autochthonous to a country other than India.
Benjamin Tucker: Benjamin Ricketson Tucker (April 17, 1854 - June 22, 1939) was a leading proponent of American individualist anarchism in the 19th century, and editor and publisher of the individualist anarchist periodical Liberty.
Battle of Tannenberg: Battle of Tannenberg may refer to: Battle of Grunwald (1410), also known as the First Battle of Tannenberg Battle of Tannenberg (1914), also known as the Second Battle of Tannenberg
Berkeley DB: Berkeley DB (BDB) is a computer software library that provides a high-performance embedded database, with bindings in C, C++, Java, Perl, Python, Ruby, Tcl, Smalltalk, and other programming languages. BDB stores arbitrary key/data pairs as byte arrays, and supports multiple data items for a single key.
Bohemian: A Bohemian is a resident of the former Kingdom of Bohemia, either in a narrow sense as the region or Bohemia proper or in a wider meaning as the whole country, now known as the Czech Republic. The word "Bohemian" used to denote the Czech people as well as the Czech language before the word "Czech" became prevalent in English.
Boolean satisfiability problem: Satisfiability is the problem of determining if the variables of a given Boolean formula can be assigned in such a way as to make the formula evaluate to TRUE. Equally important is to determine whether no such assignments exist, which would imply that the function expressed by the formula is identically FALSE for all possible variable assignments. In this latter case, we would say that the function is unsatisfiable; otherwise it is satisfiable.
Batman 1966 film: Batman, often promoted as Batman: The Movie, is a 1966 film and the first full-length theatrical adaptation of the DC Comics character of the same name. Released by 20th Century Fox, the film starred Adam West as Batman and Burt Ward as Robin. The film was directed by Leslie H. Martinson, who also directed a pair of Batman episodes; "The Penguin Goes Straight" and "Not Yet, He Ain't," both from season one.
Bob Jones University: Bob Jones University (BJU) is a private, non-denominational, fundamentalist Protestant university in Greenville, South Carolina. It is the largest private liberal arts university in South Carolina and has a reputation for being one of the most conservative of religious schools in the United States. The university was founded in 1927 by Bob Jones, Sr. (1883-1968), an evangelist and contemporary of Billy Sunday.
Batman 1989 film: Batman is a 1989 superhero film based on the DC Comics character of the same name, directed by Tim Burton. The film stars Michael Keaton in the title role, as well as Jack Nicholson, Kim Basinger, Robert Wuhl and Jack Palance. The film, in which Batman deals with the rise of a powerful villain known as "The Joker", is the first installment of Warner Bros. ' Batman film series.
Batman Robin film: Batman & Robin is a 1997 superhero film directed by Joel Schumacher. Based on the DC Comics character Batman, the film is a sequel to Batman Forever (1995), with George Clooney replacing Val Kilmer as Batman. Batman & Robin also stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, Uma Thurman, Chris O'Donnell, Alicia Silverstone and Michael Gough. The film tells the story of Batman and Robin struggling to keep their relationship together. At the same time, they have to stop Mr.
British Empire: The British Empire comprised the dominions, colonies, protectorates, mandates, and other territories ruled or administered by the United Kingdom, that had originated with the overseas colonies and trading posts established by England in the late 16th and early 17th centuries. At its height it was the largest empire in history and, for over a century, was the foremost global power.
Batman Returns: Batman Returns is an American action movie directed by Tim Burton. Based on the DC Comics character Batman, it is the sequel to Burton's Batman (1989), and features Michael Keaton reprising the title role, with Danny DeVito as the Penguin and Michelle Pfeiffer as Catwoman. Burton originally did not want to direct a sequel because of his mixed emotions toward the previous film.
Batman Forever: Batman Forever is a 1995 superhero film directed by Joel Schumacher and produced by Tim Burton. It is the third installment of the Batman film series and stars Val Kilmer as Batman. The plot focuses on Batman trying to stop Two-Face and the Riddler in their villainous scheme to drain information from all the brains in Gotham City. He gains alliance from psychiatrist Chase Meridian and adopted sidekick Dick Grayson.
Bernoulli's inequality: In real analysis, Bernoulli's inequality is an inequality that approximates exponentiations of 1 + x. The inequality states that for every integer r 0 and every real number x &minus;1. If the exponent r is even, then the inequality is valid for all real numbers x. The strict version of the inequality reads for every integer r 2 and every real number x &minus;1 with x 0. Bernoulli's inequality is often used as the crucial step in the proof of other inequalities.
Brownie McGhee: Walter Brown ("Brownie") McGhee (November 30, 1915 - February 16, 1996) was a blues singer and guitarist best known for his collaborations with the harmonica player Sonny Terry.
Bastard Operator From Hell: The Bastard Operator From Hell (BOFH), a fictional character created by Simon Travaglia, was a rogue system administrator who took out his anger on users (often referred to as lusers), his colleagues, his bosses, and anyone who got in his way. The BOFH stories were originally posted in 1992 to Usenet by Travaglia, with some being reprinted in Datamation. They were published weekly from 1995 to 1999 in Network Week and since 2000 they have been published most weeks in The Register.
Bi-directional text: Unicode Comparisonof encodings: UTF-7, UTF-1 UTF-8, CESU-8 UTF-16/UCS-2 UTF-32/UCS-4 UTF-EBCDIC SCSU, BOCU-1 Punycode GB 18030 BOM Bi-directional text Character Set: planes characters Han unification Use: HTML E-mail Unicode typefaces Bi-directional text is text containing text in both text directionalities, both right-to-left (RTL) and left-to-right (LTR).
Benjamin Franklin class submarine: The Benjamin Franklin class of submarine was an evolutionary development from the James Madison class of fleet ballistic missile submarine. Having quieter machinery and other improvements, they are considered a separate class. A subset of this class is the re-engineered 640 class starting with USS George C. Marshall (SSBN-654).
International Bureau of Weights and Measures: The International Bureau of Weights and Measures (Bureau international des poids et mesures in French), is an international standards organisation, one of three such organisations established to maintain the International System of Units (SI) under the terms of the Metre Convention (Convention du Mre). The organisation is usually referred to by its French initialism, BIPM.
Bubblegum Crisis: Bubblegum Crisis is a cyberpunk anime set in a future, post-earthquake Tokyo, called "Mega Tokyo". The show's title is a metaphor for a world in a critical situation. The creator relates it to gum being blown into a bubble that will eventually pop. Many elements of the series are highly influenced by Blade Runner.
Black people: The term black people usually refers to a racial group of humans with skin colors that range from light brown to nearly black. It is also used to categorize a number of diverse populations together based on historical and prehistorical ancestral relationships. Some definitions of the term include only people of relatively recent Sub Saharan African descent. Among the members of this group, brown skin is most often accompanied by the expression of natural afro-hair texture.
Bayonne: Bayonne is a city and commune in south-western France at the confluence of the Nive and Adour rivers, in the Pyrs-Atlantiques department, of which it is a sub-prefecture. Together with nearby Anglet, Biarritz, Saint-Jean-de-Luz, and several smaller communes, Bayonne forms an urban area with 178,965 inhabitants at the 1999 census, 40,078 of whom lived in the city of Bayonne proper (44,300 as of 2004 estimates).
Plague disease: Plague is a deadly infectious disease caused by the enterobacteria Yersinia pestis (Pasteurella pestis). Primarily carried by rodents and spread to humans via fleas, the disease is notorious throughout history, due to the unrivaled scale of death and devastation it brought. Plague is still endemic in some parts of the world.
Blu-Tack: Blu-Tack is a versatile, reusable putty-like pressure-sensitive adhesive, commonly used to attach papers to walls or other surfaces. The original version of the product was blue, but many colours are now available. Blu-Tack can leave an oily stain on paper materials if attached for a long period of time.
Bacillus: Bacillus is a genus of gram-positive rod-shaped bacteria and a member of the division Firmicutes. Bacillus species are obligate aerobes, and test positive for the enzyme catalase. Ubiquitous in nature, Bacillus includes both free-living and pathogenic species. Under stressful environmental conditions, the cells produce oval endospores that can stay dormant for extended periods.
Baudot code: The Baudot code, invented by ile Baudot, is a character set predating EBCDIC and ASCII. It was the predecessor to the International Telegraph Alphabet No 2 (ITA2), the teleprinter code in use until the advent of ASCII. Each character in the alphabet is represented by a series of bits, sent over a communication channel such as a telegraph wire or a radio signal. The symbol rate measurement is known as Baud, and is derived from the same name.
Bras lia: Braslia is the capital of Brazil. The city and its District are located in the Central-West region of the country, along a plateau known as Planalto Central. It has a population of about 2,557,000 (3,599,000 in the metropolitan area) as of the 2008 IBGE estimate, making it the fourth largest city in Brazil, ahead of Belo Horizonte and Fortaleza. However, as a metropolitan area, it ranks lower at sixth. It is listed as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. Braslia hosts 91 foreign embassies.
Bakassi: Bakassi is the peninsular extension of the African territory of Calabar into the Atlantic Ocean. It is currently ruled by Cameroon following the transfer of sovereignty from neighbouring Nigeria as a result of a judgment by the International Court of Justice. On 22 November 2007, the Nigerian Senate rejected the transfer, since the Green Tree Agreement ceding the area to Cameroon was contrary to Section 12(1) of the 1999 Constitution.
Blue Streak missile: The Blue Streak missile was a British ballistic missile designed in 1955. The ballistic missile programme was cancelled in 1960 but the rocket was used as the first-stage of the European satellite launcher Europa. Tested at Woomera test range, Australia, the Blue Streak project was finally cancelled in 1972.
Baroque dance: Baroque dance is dance of the Baroque era in Europe (roughly 1600-1750), closely linked with Baroque music, theatre and opera.
Ballad of the Green Berets: "The Ballad Of The Green Berets" is a patriotic song in the ballad style about the Green Berets, an elite special force in the U.S. Army. It is one of the very few songs of the 1960s to cast the military in a positive light and yet it became a major hit, reaching number one on the Billboard Charts for five weeks in 1966. It was also a multi-market smash, reaching #1 on Billboard's Easy Listening chart, and #2 on Billboard's Country survey. The song was written by Robin Moore and Staff Sgt.
Borzoi: The Borzoi is a breed of domestic dog (Canis lupus familiaris) also called the Russian Wolfhound and brought to Russia from Middle-Asian countries. Having medium-length and slightly curly hair, it is similar in shape to Greyhounds, and is a member of the sighthound family. The system by which Russians over the ages named their sighthounds was a series of descriptive terms, not actual names. Thus the word borzoi on its own just stands for "fast" in old Russian.
Bestiary: A bestiary, or Bestiarum vocabulum is a compendium of beasts. Bestiaries were made popular in the Middle Ages in illustrated volumes that described various animals, birds and even rocks. The natural history and illustration of each beast was usually accompanied by a moral lesson. This reflected the belief that the world itself was the Word of God, and that every living thing had its own special meaning.
BBS: BBS may refer to:
Brit milah: Brit milah is a religious ceremony within Judaism to welcome infant Jewish boys into a covenant between God and the Children of Israel through ritual circumcision performed by a mohel ("circumciser"). This happens on the eighth day of the child's life unless health reasons or certain specific conditions pertaining to the date, time, and conditions of birth vis-a-vis the Sabbath and/or holidays force a delay, in the presence of family and friends, followed by a celebratory meal.
Basenji: The Basenji is a breed of hunting dog that was bred from stock originating in central Africa. Most of the major kennel clubs in the English-speaking world place the breed in the Hound Group; more specifically, it may be classified as belonging to the sighthound type. The Fation Cynologique Internationale places the breed in Group 5, Spitz and Primitive types, and the United Kennel Club (US) places the breed in the Sighthound & Pariah Group.
British Standards: British Standards are produced by BSI Group which is incorporated under a Royal Charter and is formally designated as the National Standards Body (NSB) for the UK. Products and services which BSI certifies as having met the requirements of specific standards within designated schemes are awarded the Kitemark.
Building society: A building society is a financial institution, owned by its members, that offers banking and other financial services, especially mortgage lending. The term building society first arose in the 19th century, in the United Kingdom, from co-operative savings groups. In the UK today building societies actively compete with banks for most personal banking services, especially mortgage lending and deposit accounts.
Blue Steel missile: The Avro Blue Steel was a British air-launched, rocket-propelled nuclear stand-off missile, built to arm the V bomber force. It was the primary British nuclear deterrent weapon until the Royal Navy started operating Polaris missile armed nuclear submarines.
Burwash Hall: Burwash Hall is the second oldest of the residence buildings at Toronto's Victoria College. Construction began in 1911 and was completed in 1913. It was named after Nathanael Burwash, a former president of Victoria. The building is an extravagant Neo-Gothic work with turrets, gargoyles, and battlements. The architect was Henry Sproatt. The building is divided between the large dining hall in the northwest and the student residence proper. The residence area is divided into two sections.
Branch Davidian: The Branch Davidians (also known as "The Branch") are a Protestant sect that originated in 1955 from a schism in the Davidian Seventh Day Adventists ("Davidians"), a reform movement that began within the Seventh-day Adventist Church ("Adventists") around 1930. The majority of those who accepted the reform message have been disfellowshipped due to many in the Adventist leadership rejecting it.
Balloon: A balloon is an inflatable flexible bag filled with a type of gas, such as helium, hydrogen, nitrous oxide or air. Modern balloons can be made from materials such as rubber, latex, polychloroprene, or a nylon fabric, while some early balloons were sometimes made of dried animal bladders. Some balloons are purely decorative, while others are used for specific purposes such as meteorology, medical treatment, military defense, or transportation.
Benzodiazepine: A benzodiazepine (sometimes abbreviated to "benzo") is a psychoactive drug whose core chemical structure is the fusion of a benzene ring and a diazepine ring. The first benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide (Librium), was discovered accidentally by Leo Sternbach in 1955, and made available in 1960 by Hoffmann-La Roche, which has also marketed diazepam (Valium) since 1963.
Bell curve: Bell curve can refer to: Normal distribution, whose density function graph is a bell-shaped curve The Bell Curve, a book by Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles Murray Bell curve grading, a method of evaluating scholastic performance. Pear-shaped body.
Behistun Inscription: The Behistun Inscription is a multi-lingual inscription located on Mount Behistun in the Kermanshah Province of Iran, near the city of Kermanshah in western Iran. Authored by Darius I, the Great sometime between his coronation as king of the Persian Empire in the summer of 522 BC and his death in autumn of 486 BC, the inscription begins with a brief autobiography of Darius I, the Great including his ancestry, lineage etc.
Baralong Incidents: The Baralong Incidents were naval engagements of the First World War in August and September 1915, involving the Royal Navy Q-Ship HMS Wyandra, sailing under the name of Baralong, and two German U-boats.
Barry Goldwater: Barry Morris Goldwater (January 1, 1909 - May 29, 1998) was a five-term United States Senator from Arizona (1953-1965, 1969-1987) and the Republican Party's nominee for President in the 1964 election. He was also a Major General in the U.S. Air Force Reserve. He was known as "Mr. Conservative". Goldwater is the politician most often credited for sparking the resurgence of the American conservative political movement in the 1960s. He also had a substantial impact on the libertarian movement.
Banda: Banda may refer to:
Body mass index: File:Body mass index chart. svg A graph of body mass index is shown above. The dashed lines represent subdivisions within a major class. For instance the "Underweight" classification is further divided into "severe," "moderate," and "mild" subclasses. Based on World Health Organization data here. The body mass index (BMI), or Quetelet index, is a statistical measure which compares a person's weight and height.
Bob Young businessman: Robert "Bob" Young is an entrepreneur who made a fortune from Red Hat software. He was born in Ancaster, Ontario, Canada. He attended Trinity College School in Port Hope, Ontario. He received a Bachelor of the Arts from Victoria College at the University of Toronto. He created the ACC Corporation which merged with Red Hat in 1995. From the merger to 1999 Bob Young was Red Hat's CEO.
Bladder disambiguation: Bladder may refer to: A bladder is a pouch or other flexible enclosure with waterproof or gasproof walls In Anatomy: Urinary bladder, which collects urine for excretion Gall bladder, which stores bile for digestion Gas bladder, an internal organ that contributes to the ability of a fish to control its buoyancy
Babylon 5: Babylon 5 is an American science fiction television series created, produced and largely written by J. Michael Straczynski. The show centers on the Babylon 5 space station: a focal point for politics, diplomacy, and conflict during the years 2257-2262. With its prominent use of planned story arcs, the series was often described as a "novel for television".
BeOS: BeOS was an operating system for personal computers which began development by Be Inc. in 1991. It was first written to run on BeBox hardware. BeOS was optimized for digital media work and was written to take advantage of modern hardware facilities such as symmetric multiprocessing by utilizing modular I/O bandwidth, pervasive multithreading, preemptive multitasking and a custom 64-bit journaling file system known as BFS.
Biome: Biomes are climatically and geographically defined similar climatic conditions communities of plants, animals, and soil organisms, and are often referred to as ecosystems. Biomes are defined by factors such as plant structures (such as trees, shrubs, and grasses), leaf types (such as broadleaf and needleleaf), plant spacing (forest, woodland, savanna), and climate. Unlike ecozones, biomes are not defined by genetic, taxonomic, or historical similarities.
Behavior: Behavior or behaviour refers to the actions or reactions of an object or organism, usually in relation to the environment. Behavior can be conscious or subconscious, overt or covert, and or .
Balance of trade: The balance of trade (or net exports, sometimes symbolized as NX) is the difference between the monetary value of exports and imports of output in an economy over a certain period. It is the relationship between a nation's imports and exports. A favourable balance of trade is known as a trade surplus and consists of exporting more than is imported; an unfavourable balance of trade is known as a trade deficit or, informally, a trade gap.
Battle of Marathon: The Battle of Marathon took place in 490 BC during the first Persian invasion of Greece. It was fought between the citizens of Athens, aided by Plataea, and a Persian force commanded by Datis and Artaphernes. It was the culmination of the first attempt by Persia, under King Darius I, to subjugate Greece.
Biosphere: The biosphere is the global sum of all ecosystems. It can also be called the zone of life on Earth. From the broadest biophysiological point of view, the biosphere is the global ecological system integrating all living beings and their relationships, including their interaction with the elements of the lithosphere, hydrosphere, and atmosphere. The biosphere is postulated to have evolved, beginning through a process of biogenesis or biopoesis, at least some 3.5 billion years ago.
Biological membrane: A biological membrane or biomembrane is an enclosing or separating amphipathic layer that acts as a barrier within or around a cell. It is almost invariably a lipid bilayer, composed of a double layer of lipid molecules and proteins that may constitute close to 50% of membrane content.
Balfour Declaration of 1926: The Balfour Declaration of 1926, a report resulting from the 1926 Imperial Conference of British Empire leaders in London, was named after the British statesman Arthur Balfour, first Earl of Balfour, Lord President of the Council and a previous Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
Black Hand: Black Hand, officially Unity or Death ( , Ujedinjenje ili smrt), was a military secret society founded in the Kingdom of Serbia on May 9, 1911. It was a part of the Pan-Slavist movement, with the intention of uniting all of the territories containing South Slav populations annexed by Austria-Hungary.
Balkan Wars: The term Balkan Wars refers to the two wars that took place in South-eastern Europe in 1912 and 1913. The First Balkan War broke out on 8 October 1912 when Bulgaria, Greece, Montenegro and Serbia, having large parts of their ethnic populations under Ottoman sovereignty, attacked the Ottoman Empire, terminating its five-century rule in the Balkans in a seven-month campaign resulting in the Treaty of London.
Board of directors: A board of directors is a body of elected or appointed members who jointly oversee the activities of a company or organization. The body sometimes has a different name, such as board of trustees, board of governors, board of managers, or executive board. It is often simply referred to as "the board. " A board's activities are determined by the powers, duties, and responsibilities delegated to it or conferred on it by an authority outside itself.
Buffalo: Buffalo may refer to:
BeBox: The BeBox was a short-lived dual processor PC, offered by Be Inc. to run the company's own operating system, BeOS. Notable aspects of the system include its CPU configuration, I/O board with "GeekPort", and "Blinkenlights" on the front bezel. The BeBox made its debut in October 1995 (BeBox Dual603-66). The processors were upgraded to 133 MHz in August 1996 (BeBox Dual603e-133).
Biomedical engineering: Biomedical engineering is the application of engineering principles and techniques to the medical field. This field seeks to close the gap between engineering and medicine. It combines the design and problem solving skills of engineering with medical and biological sciences to improve healthcare diagnosis and treatment.
Bohr model: In atomic physics, the Bohr model, devised by Niels Bohr, depicts the atom as a small, positively charged nucleus surrounded by electrons that travel in circular orbits around the nucleus- similar in structure to the solar system, but with electrostatic forces providing attraction, rather than gravity. This was an improvement on the earlier cubic model, the plum-pudding model, the Saturnian model, and the Rutherford model.
Bombay Sapphire: Bombay Sapphire is a brand of gin distributed by Bacardi, launched in 1987, having been named via a competitive process whereby a number of leading Madison Avenue agencies were played off against each other. The name hints at the origins of the gin's popularity in the India of the days of the British Raj. Bombay Sapphire is marketed in a flat-sided, sapphire-coloured bottle that bears a likeness of Queen Victoria on the label.
Bob Wills: James Robert Wills (March 6, 1905 - May 13, 1975), better known as Bob Wills, was an American Western swing musician, songwriter, and bandleader, considered by many music authorities one of the fathers of Western swing and called the King of Western Swing by his fans.
Balkans: The Balkans (often referred to as the Balkan Peninsula, although the two are not coterminous) is a geopolitical and cultural region of southeastern Europe. The region takes its name from the Balkan Mountains, which run through the centre of Bulgaria into eastern Serbia. The region has a combined area of 550,000 km (212,000 sq mi) and a population of about 55 million people. "Balkan" comes from a Turkish word meaning "a chain of wooded mountains".
Badtrans computer worm: BadTrans is a malicious Microsoft Windows computer worm distributed by e-mail. Because of a known vulnerability in older versions of Internet Explorer, some e-mail programs, such as Microsoft's Outlook Express and Microsoft Outlook programs, may install and execute the worm as soon as the e-mail message is viewed.
Blitz BASIC: Blitz BASIC is a commercial compiler for the BASIC programming language. Originally developed on the Amiga, Blitz BASIC compilers are now available on several platforms. The Blitz products are mainly designed for programming games but also feature support for graphical user interfaces and general applications. The term Blitz BASIC is often used to refer to the general syntax used in the entire range of Blitz languages, as well as the original product that started them.
Bar Man o: Bar Man (also spelled Baris Mancho in some European album releases) (January 2, 1943 - January 31, 1999) was a Turkish rock singer, composer, and television producer. He composed about 200 songs, some of which were translated into a variety of languages including English, Japanese, Greek, Italian, Bulgarian, Romanian, Persian, Hebrew and Arabic. He remains one of the most popular public figures of Turkey.
Bliss bibliographic classification: The Bliss bibliographic classification (BC) is a library classification system that was created by Henry E. Bliss (1870-1955), published in four volumes between 1940 and 1953. Although originally devised in the United States, it was more commonly adopted by British libraries than by American ones. A second edition of the system (BC2) has been developed in Britain since 1977.
Blood alcohol content: Blood alcohol content or blood alcohol concentration (abbreviated BAC) is the concentration of alcohol in a person's blood. BAC is most commonly used as a metric of intoxication for legal or medical purposes. It is usually expressed in terms of volume of alcohol per volume of blood in the body. That is a unit-less ratio commonly expressed as parts per million (PPM) or as a fractional percentage.
Budweiser Anheuser-Busch: Budweiser is a 5.0% abv pale lager introduced in 1876 by Adolphus Busch and has become one of the highest selling beers in the United States. It is made with up to 30% rice in addition to hops and barley malt. Budweiser is produced in various breweries located around the United States and the rest of the world. It is a filtered beer available in draught and packaged forms.
Barrister: A barrister is a lawyer found in many common law jurisdictions that employ a split profession (as opposed to a fused profession) in relation to legal representation. In split professions, the other types of lawyers are mainly solicitors. Solicitors have more direct contact with the clients, whereas barristers often only become involved in a case once advocacy before a court is needed by the client. Barristers are also engaged by solicitors to provide specialist advice on points of law.
Bermuda Triangle: The Bermuda Triangle, also known as the Devil's Triangle, is a region in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean in which a number of aircraft and surface vessels are alleged to have mysteriously disappeared in a manner that cannot be explained by human error, piracy, equipment failure, or natural disasters. Popular culture has attributed these disappearances to the paranormal, a suspension of the laws of physics, or activity by extraterrestrial beings.
Battle of Gettysburg: The Battle of Gettysburg (July 1-3, 1863), fought in and around the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, as part of the Gettysburg Campaign, was the battle with the largest number of casualties in the American Civil War and is often described as the war's turning point. Union Maj. Gen. George Gordon Meade's Army of the Potomac defeated attacks by Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, ending Lee's invasion of the North.
Bodmin: Bodmin is a town in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom, with a population of 12,778 (2001 census). It was the county town of Cornwall, until the Crown Courts moved to Truro, which is also the administrative centre. It was in Triggshire and the district of North Cornwall. Its mayor is Cllr Robert "Bob" Micek. (Before 1835 the county town was at Launceston.)
Borough: A borough is an administrative division in various countries. In principle, the term borough designates a self-governing township although, in practice, official use of the term varies widely. The word borough derives from a common Indo-European language cognate, meaning fort: compare with bury (England), burgh (Scotland), Burg (Germany), bourg (France), burgo (Spain), borg (Scandinavia), borgo (Italy), burcht (Dutch).
Berkeley California: Berkeley is a city on the east shore of the San Francisco Bay in Northern California, United States. Its neighbors to the south are the cities of Oakland and Emeryville. To the north is the city of Albany and the unincorporated community of Kensington. The eastern city limits coincide with the county line, which generally follows the ridge line of the Berkeley Hills. Berkeley is located in northern Alameda County.
Bodmin Moor: Bodmin Moor is a granite moorland in northeastern Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. It is 208 square kilometres (80 sq mi) in size, and originally dates from the Carboniferous period of geological history. The name "Bodmin Moor" is relatively recent, being an Ordnance Survey invention of 1813. It was formerly known as "Fowey Moor", after the river which rises within it.
Bucket argument: Isaac Newton's rotating bucket argument (also known as "Newton's bucket") was designed to demonstrate that true rotational motion cannot be defined as the relative rotation of the body with respect to the immediately surrounding bodies.
Bolventor: Bolventor is a hamlet on Bodmin Moor in Cornwall, United Kingdom. The village is bypassed by a dual carriageway section of the A30 between Launceston, Cornwall and Bodmin, Cornwall. Until the bypass was built, the village straddled the main road. Daphne du Maurier, a former resident, chose Bolventor as the setting for Jamaica Inn, her novel about Cornish smugglers. The original coaching house, Jamaica Inn, that inspired the novel has stood beside the main road through the village since 1547.
Bengal: Bengal (Bengali: Bgo, Bangla, Bgodesh, is a historical and geographical region in the northeast region of the Indian Subcontinent. Today it is mainly divided between the Indian state of West Bengal and the independent People's Republic of Bangladesh, although some regions of the previous kingdoms of Bengal are now part of the neighboring Indian states of Bihar, Assam, Tripura and Orissa.
Breviary: A breviary (from Latin brevis, 'short' or 'concise') is a liturgical book of the Latin liturgical rites of the Catholic Church containing the public or canonical prayers, hymns, the Psalms, readings, and notations for everyday use, especially by, bishops, priests, and deacons in the Divine Office (i.e. , at the canonical hours or Liturgy of the Hours, the Christians' daily prayer).
Bill: Bill may refer to:
B. F. Skinner: Burrhus Frederic Skinner (March 20, 1904 - August 18, 1990) was an American psychologist, author, inventor, advocate for social reform, and poet. He was the Edgar Pierce Professor of Psychology at Harvard University from 1958 until his retirement in 1974. He came up with the operant conditioning chamber, innovated his own philosophy of science called Radical Behaviorism, and founded his own school of experimental research psychology- the experimental analysis of behavior.
Boomer: Boomer may mean: Places Boomers! Parks - a theme park / family entertainment center chain owned by Palace Entertainment.
Bill Macy: Bill Macy (born May 18, 1922) is an American television and stage actor. Macy was born Wolf Marvin Garber in Revere, Massachusetts, to Mollie and Michael Garber, a manufacturer. He is best known for his portrayal of Walter Findlay, the long-suffering husband of the title character on the 1970s television sitcom Maude. Macy was also an original cast member of the long-running theatrical revue Oh! Calcutta!.
Bin Laden disambiguation: Bin Laden may refer to: The bin Laden family, a very wealthy and influential family in Saudi Arabia Osama bin Laden, a militant Islamist and the founder of the terrorist organization al-Qaeda.
Black metal: Black metal is an extreme subgenre of heavy metal. It often uses fast tempos, shrieked vocals, highly distorted guitars played with tremolo picking, blast beat drumming, and unconventional song structure. During the 1980s, certain thrash metal bands formed a prototype for black metal. This so-called "first wave" included bands such as Venom, Bathory, Hellhammer and Celtic Frost.
Blizzard Entertainment: Blizzard Entertainment, Inc. is an American video game developer and publisher founded in February 1991 under the name Silicon & Synapse by three graduates of UCLA, Michael Morhaime, Allen Adham and Frank Pearce. Based in Irvine, California, the company originally concentrated primarily on the creation of game ports for other studios before beginning development of their own software in 1993 with the development of games like Rock N' Roll Racing and The Lost Vikings.
Bob Knight: Robert Montgomery "Bob" or "Bobby" Knight (born October 25, 1940) is a retired American basketball coach. Nicknamed "The General", Knight has won 902 NCAA Division I men's college basketball games, more than any other head coach. On January 1, 2007, he achieved his 880th victory, breaking the record held by Dean Smith. His 900th victory came on January 16, 2008. He was most recently the head men's basketball coach at Texas Tech before announcing his retirement on February 4, 2008.
Bachelor: A bachelor is a man above the age of majority who has never been married. The term's origin in this sense dates from 1385, Middle English. The term is sometimes restricted to men who do not have and are not actively seeking a spouse or other personal partner. For example, men who are in a committed relationship with a personal partner (female or male) to whom they are not married are no longer generally considered "bachelors," but neither are they considered married.
Background radiation: Background radiation is constantly present in the environment and is emitted from a variety of natural and artificial sources. Primary contributions come from: Sources in the earth. These include sources in food and water, which are incorporated in the body, and in building materials and other products that incorporate those radioactive sources; Sources from space, in the form of cosmic rays; Sources in the atmosphere.
Bildungsroman: A bildungsroman is a coming-of-age novel. In it, the author presents the psychological, moral and social shaping of the personality of a character, usually the protagonist. The genre arose during the German Enlightenment. The German term Bildungsroman was coined by Johann Carl Simon Morgenstern in 1820. A bildungsroman tells about the growing up or coming of age of a sensitive person who is looking for answers and experience.
Balmoral: Balmoral may refer to:
Robert Bellarmine: Robert Bellarmine was an Italian Jesuit and a Cardinal of the Catholic Church. He was one of the most important cardinals of the Catholic Reformation. He was canonized in 1930 and is a saint and a Doctor of the Church.
Bannock: Bannock has more than one meaning: Bannock (food), a kind of bread, usually prepared by pan-frying Bannock (tribe), a Native American people of what is now southeastern Oregon and western Idaho Bannock County, Idaho Bannock, a payment of a handful of meal, made by a farmer to the servant of a miller for services rendered
Banquo: Banquo is a character in William Shakespeare's 1606 play Macbeth. Banquo is at first an ally to Macbeth, his co-captain in the battle against the rebels, and they are together when they meet the Three Witches. After prophesying that Macbeth will become king, the witches tell Banquo that he will not be king himself, but that his descendants will be. Later, Macbeth sees Banquo as a threat to his lust for power and has him murdered; Banquo's son Fleance, however, escapes.
Bruin: Bruin is another name for the Brown Bear (Ursus arctos), usually used poetically or archaically, and has become a popular name for sports teams. The word entered the English language via William Caxton's 1485 translation of a Dutch version of the legend of Reynard the Fox. Bruin is the bear, named for his brown color.
Bert Bell: De Benneville "Bert" Bell (February 25, 1895 - October 11, 1959) was co-founder of the Philadelphia Eagles, co-owner and coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers and commissioner of the National Football League from 1946 until his death.
British Army: The British Army is the land armed forces branch of Her Majesty's Armed Forces in the United Kingdom. It came into being with the unification of the Kingdoms of England and Scotland into the Kingdom of Great Britain in 1707. The new British Army incorporated Regiments that had already existed in England and Scotland and was administered by the War Office from London. It has been managed by the Ministry of Defence since 1963.
Bayesian probability: Bayesian probability is one of the most popular interpretations of the concept of probability. The Bayesian interpretation of probability can be seen as an extension of logic that enables reasoning with uncertain statements. To evaluate the probability of a hypothesis, the Bayesian probabilist specifies some prior probability, which is then updated in the light of new relevant data. The Bayesian interpretation provides a standard set of procedures and formula to perform this calculation.
Bob Costas: Robert Quinlan "Bob" Costas (born March 22, 1952) is an American sportscaster, on the air for the NBC network since the early 1980s.
Bamberg: Bamberg is a town in Bavaria, Germany. It is located in Upper Franconia on the river Regnitz, close to its confluence with the river Main. Bamberg is one of the few cities in Germany that was not destroyed by World War II bombings because of a nearby Artillery Factory that prevented planes from getting near to Bamberg. Bamberg is home to nearly 7,000 foreign nationals, including over 4,100 members of the United States Army and their dependents.
Bloody Mary: Bloody Mary may refer to: Bloody Mary (cocktail) Mary I of England, Queen of England and Ireland Bloody Mary (folklore), a ghost said to appear when summoned Bloody Mary (South Pacific) Bloody Mary (DC Comics), a fictional extraterrestrial vampire Bloody Mary (Helix), a comic book Bloody Mary (Marvel Comics), a fictional telekinetic supervillain "Bloody Mary" (South Park), a TV episode "Bloody Mary" (Supernatural), a TV episode ', a film
House of Bonaparte: The House of Bonaparte is an imperial and royal European dynasty founded by Napoleon I of France in 1804, a Corsican military leader who rose to notability out of the French Revolution and transformed the French Republic into the First French Empire within five years of his coup d'at. Napoleon turned the Grande Arm against every major European power and dominated continental Europe through a series of military victories.
Bill Mumy: Charles William "Bill" Mumy, Jr. (born February 1, 1954), is an American actor, musician, pitchman, instrumentalist, voice-over artist and a figure in the science-fiction community. He is known primarily for his roles in movies and television, character-type roles, and his work in television production. The red-headed Mumy came to prominence in the 1960s as a child actor, most notably as Will Robinson, the youngest of the three children of Prof. John and Dr.
Beta sheet: The sheet (also -pleated sheet) is the second form of regular secondary structure in proteins consisting of beta strands connected laterally by five or more hydrogen bonds, forming a generally twisted, pleated sheet (the most common form of regular secondary structure in proteins is the alpha helix). A beta strand (also -strand) is a stretch of amino acids typically 5-10 amino acids long whose peptide backbones are almost fully extended.
Black cow: Black Cow can refer to either: A cow that is black. A Root Beer Float. A 1977 song by Steely Dan on the Aja album. A discontinued candy, a Sugar Daddy bar covered in chocolate.
Beryl: The mineral beryl is a beryllium aluminium cyclosilicate with the chemical formula Be3Al2(SiO3)6. The hexagonal crystals of beryl may be very small or range to several meters in size. Terminated crystals are relatively rare. Pure beryl is colorless, but it is frequently tinted by impurities; possible colors are green, blue, yellow, red, and white. The name comes from the Greek beryllos () which referred to a precious blue-green color-of-sea-water stone.
Black Russian: The Black Russian is a cocktail of vodka and coffee liqueur (usually three parts vodka to two parts coffee liqueur, per the Kahla bottle's label, or five parts vodka to two parts coffee liqueur, per IBA specified ingredients). It is traditionally poured over ice cubes or cracked ice in an old-fashioned glass. This combination first appeared in 1949, and is ascribed to a Belgian barman who created it at the Hotel Metropole in Brussels in honor of Perle Mesta, then U.S. ambassador to Luxembourg.
Bundaberg Rum: Bundaberg Rum is a dark rum produced in Bundaberg, Australia, often referred to as "Bundy". The Bundaberg Distilling Company owns its own cola producing facility, which supplies the cola for its ready-to-drink Bundaberg Rum and Cola products. This company does not produce Bundaberg Ginger Beer.
Bunnies Burrows: Bunnies & Burrows (B&B) is a role-playing game (RPG) inspired by the novel Watership Down. Published by Fantasy Games Unlimited in 1976, the game centered around intelligent rabbits. It introduced several innovations to role-playing game design, being the first game to allow players to have non-humanoid roles, and the first to have detailed martial arts and skill systems.
Basel: Basel /l/ or Basle // is Switzerland's third most populous city with 166,209 inhabitants. Being located where the Swiss, French and German borders meet, Basel also has suburbs in France and Germany. With 830,000 inhabitants in the tri-national metropolitan area as of 2004, Basel is Switzerland's second-largest urban area. Located in northwest Switzerland on the river Rhine, Basel functions as a major industrial centre for the chemical and pharmaceutical industry.
Bacardi: Bacardi is a family-controlled spirits company, best known as a producer of rums, including Bacardi Superior and Bacardi 151. The company sells in excess of 200 million bottles per year in nearly 100 countries. The company's sales in 2007 were US$5.5 billion, up from $4.9 billion in 2006. Bacardi is headquartered in Hamilton, Bermuda and has a 16-member board of directors led by the original founder's great-great grandson, Facundo L. Bacardi. The President Bernard F.
Bipolar I disorder: Bipolar I disorder is a mood disorder that is characterized by at least one manic or mixed episode. There may be episodes of hypomania or major depression as well. It is a sub-diagnosis of bipolar disorder, and conforms to the classic concept of manic-depressive illness.
Black and Tans: The Black and Tans was one of two newly recruited bodies, composed largely of World War I veterans, employed by the Royal Irish Constabulary from 1920 to 1921 to suppress revolution in Ireland. Although it was established to target the Irish Republican Army, it became notorious through its numerous attacks on the Irish civilian population. However, the term Black and Tans is sometimes used to refer to the RIC Auxiliary Division.
Bunsen burner: A Bunsen burner, named after Robert Bunsen, is a common piece of laboratory equipment that produces a single open gas flame, which is used for heating, sterilization, and combustion.
Ben Nevis: Ben Nevis is the highest mountain in the British Isles. It is located at the western end of the Grampian Mountains in the Lochaber area of the Scottish Highlands, close to the town of Fort William. As is common for many Scottish mountains, it is known both to locals and visitors as simply the Ben. It attracts an estimated 100,000 ascents a year, around three-quarters of which are made using the well-constructed Pony Track from Glen Nevis on the south side of the mountain.
Battle of wiecino: The Battle of wiecino (named for the village of wiecino, near arnowiec Lake, northern Poland) also called the Battle of arnowiec or in German Battle of Schwetz, took place on September 17, 1462 during the Thirteen Years' War. The Poles commanded by Piotr Dunin, consisting of some 2000 mercenaries decisively defeated the Teutonic Knights, having some 2700 mercenaries, commanded by Fritz Raweneck and Kaspar Nostyc.
Barney Bubbles: Colin Fulcher aka Barney Bubbles (July 1942 - Nov 1983) was a radical English graphic artist, whose work primarily encompassed the disciplines of graphic design, painting and music video direction. He is most renowned for his distinctive contribution to the graphic design associated with the British independent music scene during the 1970s and early 1980s. His symbol-laden and riddle-laden record sleeves were his most visible output.
Bolshevik: The Bolsheviks, originally also Bolshevists (derived from bol'shinstvo, "majority", which comes from bol'she, "more", the comparative form of bol'shoi, "big") were a faction of the Marxist Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (RSDLP) which split apart from the Menshevik faction at the Second Party Congress in 1903. The Bolsheviks were the majority faction in a crucial vote, hence their name. They ultimately became the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.
Blackridge Pennsylvania: Blackridge is a community in eastern Allegheny County and is a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. This community consists of about 650 private homes built in 1920-1949, Blackridge Estates was and remains one of the area's largest residential communities. Blackridge lies in the municipalities of Wilkinsburg, Penn Hills and Churchill; it maintains a Civic Association and a private park and swim club for residents.
BND: BND may stand for: Bundesnachrichtendienst, German intelligence agency Bank of North Dakota Buy Nothing Day Brunei dollar BTEC National Diploma Brandon railway station, Brandon, Suffolk, England; National Rail station code BND Bulgarian New Democracy, a Bulgarian centre-right party. "Barely noticeable difference", a synonym for just noticeable difference Bandanna Energy Limited, from its code on the Australian Securities Exchange
Basic English: Basic English, also known as Simple English, is an English-based controlled language created by Charles Kay Ogden (in essence a simplified subset of English) as an international auxiliary language, and as an aid for teaching English as a Second Language. It was presented in Ogden's book Basic English: A General Introduction with Rules and Grammar (1930). Capitalised, BASIC is sometimes taken as an acronym that stands for British American Scientific International Commercial.
Blood libel: Blood libels are false and sensationalized allegations that a person or group engages in human sacrifice, often accompanied by the claim that the blood of the victims is used in various rituals and/or acts of cannibalism. The alleged victims are often children. Many groups have been accused throughout history, including Christians, Jews, Cathars, Carthaginians, Knights Templar, witches, Christian heretics, Romani people, Mormons, neopagans, Native Americans, Africans, and atheists.
Blue whale: The blue whale (Balaenoptera musculus) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales. At up to 33 metres (108 ft) in length and 180 metric tons or more in weight, it is the largest animal ever known to have existed. Long and slender, the blue whale's body can be various shades of bluish-grey dorsally and somewhat lighter underneath. There are at least three distinct subspecies: B. m. musculus of the North Atlantic and North Pacific, B. m. intermedia of the Southern Ocean and B.
Brass instrument: A brass instrument is a musical instrument whose sound is produced by sympathetic vibration of air in a tubular resonator in sympathy with the vibration of the player's lips. Brass instruments are also called labrosones, literally meaning "lip-vibrated instruments". There are two factors in producing different pitches on a brass instrument: One is alteration of the player's lip tension, and air flow.
Naive set theory: Naive set theory is one of several theories of sets used in the discussion of the foundations of mathematics. The informal content of this naive set theory supports both the aspects of mathematical sets familiar in discrete mathematics (for example Venn diagrams and symbolic reasoning about their Boolean algebra), and the everyday usage of set theory concepts in most contemporary mathematics.
Bagpuss: Bagpuss is a popular 1974 UK children's television series, made by Peter Firmin and Oliver Postgate through their company Smallfilms. The title character is "an old, saggy cloth cat, baggy, and a bit loose at the seams".
Breathy voice: Breathy voice (also called murmured voice, soughing, or susurration) is a phonation in which the vocal cords vibrate, as they do in normal (modal) voicing, but are held further apart, so that a larger volume of air escapes between them. This produces an audible noise. A breathy-voiced phonation [] (not actually a fricative, as a literal reading of the IPA chart would suggest) can sometimes be heard as an allophone of English /h/ between vowels, e.g. in the word behind, for some speakers.
Banacek: Banacek (one of the rotating NBC Mystery Movie series) is a short-lived, light-hearted detective TV series starring George Peppard on NBC from 1972 to 1974. It alternated in its timeslot with several other shows but was the only one to last beyond its first season. It was later rebroadcast on A&E Network. The show had a mixture of humor combined with rather intricate plots that never generated strong ratings.
B zout's identity: In number theory, Bout's identity or Bout's lemma is a linear diophantine equation. It states that if a and b are nonzero integers with greatest common divisor d, then there exist integers x and y (called Bout numbers or Bout coefficients) such that Additionally, d is the smallest positive integer for which there are integer solutions x and y for the preceding equation.
Blue Angels: The United States Navy's Navy Flight Demonstration Squadron, popularly known as the Blue Angels, first performed in 1946 and is currently the oldest flying aerobatic team. The squadron's six demonstration pilots fly the Boeing F/A-18 Hornet in more than 70 shows at 34 locations throughout the United States each year, where they still employ many of the same practices and techniques used in their aerial displays in 1946.
Born again Christianity: In Christianity, being born again represents a spiritual and metaphorical rebirth, accepting Jesus as the Messiah and receiving the Holy Spirit. The origin of the term "born again" is the New Testament: "Jesus replied, 'Very truly I tell you, no one can see the kingdom of God without being born again. '" It is a term associated with Salvation in Christianity.
B-1 Lancer: The Rockwell (now part of Boeing) B-1 Lancer is a strategic bomber used by the United States Air Force. First envisioned in the 1960s as a supersonic bomber with sufficient range and payload to replace the B-52 Stratofortress, it developed primarily into a low-level penetrator with long range and supersonic speed capability.
Bokken: A bokken (, bok, "wood", and ken, "sword"), is a Japanese wooden sword used for training, usually the size and shape of a katana, but sometimes shaped like other swords, such as the wakizashi and tant. Bokken () is a term synonymous with bokut in Japan, but is more widely used in the west. Traditionally, the character Ken () is used at the beginning of a word, for terms having to do with the sword, for example in Kend ( "way of the sword") and Kenjutsu ( "art of the sword").
Book of Common Prayer: The Book of Common Prayer is the common title of a number of prayer books of the Church of England and of other Anglican churches, used throughout the Anglican Communion. The first book, published in 1549, in the reign of Edward VI, was a product of the English Reformation following the break with Rome. Prayer books, unlike books of prayers, contain the words of structured services of worship.
Birmingham Small Arms Company: The Birmingham Small Arms Company (BSA) is a British based airgun and shotgun manufacturer and former manufacturer of motorcycles and both sporting and military firearms. At its peak, BSA was the largest motorcycle producer in the world. Loss of sales and poor investments in new products in the motorcycle division, which included Triumph Motorcycles, led to problems for the whole group.
Bovril: Bovril is the trademarked name of a thick, salty meat extract, developed in the 1870s by John Lawson Johnston and sold in a distinctive, bulbous jar. It is made in Burton upon Trent, Staffordshire, and distributed by Unilever UK. Bovril can be made into a drink by diluting with hot water, or (less commonly) milk. It can also be used as a flavouring for soups, stews or porridge, or spread on bread, especially toast, rather like Marmite.
Benjamin D. Santer: Dr. Benjamin D. Santer is a climate researcher at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. He specializes mainly in statistical analysis of climate data sets, and detection/attribution of climate change forcings. He was the convening Lead Author of Chapter 8 of 1995 IPCC Working Group I Report, which addressed the global warming issue.
Bernoulli number: In mathematics, the Bernoulli numbers are a sequence of rational numbers with deep connections to number theory. They are closely related to the values of the Riemann zeta function at negative integers. Bn = 0 for all odd n other than 1. B1 = 1/2 or 1/2 depending on the convention adopted.
BSA: File:Wiktionary-logo-en. svg Look up bsa in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. BSA may refer to:
Bubble Bobble: Bubble Bobble is an arcade game by Taito, first released in 1986 and later ported to numerous home computers and game consoles . The game, starring the twin Bubble Dragons Bub (Bubblun) and Bob (Bobblun), is an action-platformer game in which players travel through one hundred different stages, busting and pushing bubbles, avoiding enemies and collecting a variety of items. The game became very popular and led to a long series of sequels and spinoffs.
Blackwood: Blackwood is a Scottish surname.
Blackwood convention: The Blackwood convention is a popular bidding convention in contract bridge that was developed by Easley Blackwood Sr. It is used to explore the partnership's possession of aces, kings and (in some cases) the queen of trumps, in order to judge more precisely whether a (ie making all, or all but one, tricks) is likely to be possible.
Bill Bixby: Bill Bixby (January 22, 1934 - November 21, 1993) was an American film and television actor, director, and frequent game show panelist. His career spanned over three decades; he appeared on stage, in motion pictures and five TV series, such as My Favorite Martian, The Courtship of Eddie's Father, and The Incredible Hulk.
Bronze Star Medal: The Bronze Star Medal is a United States Armed Forces individual military decoration that may be awarded for bravery, acts of merit, or meritorious service. When awarded for bravery, it is the fourth-highest combat award of the U.S. Armed Forces and the ninth highest military award (including both combat and non-combat awards) in the order of precedence of U.S. military decorations.
Boer: Boer is the Dutch word for farmer which came to denote the descendants of the proto Afrikaans-speaking pastoralists of the eastern Cape frontier in Southern Africa during the 18th century as well as those who left the Cape Colony during the 19th century to settle in the Orange Free State, Transvaal (together known as the Boer Republics) and to a lesser extent Natal.
Battle of Abrittus: The Battle of Abritus, also known as the Battle of Forum Terebronii, occurred in the Roman province of Moesia Inferior probably in July, 251, between the Roman Empire and a federation of "Scythian" tribesmen under the Goth King Cniva. The Romans were soundly defeated, and Roman Emperors Decius and his son Herennius Etruscus were both killed during battle. They became the first Roman emperors killed in a battle with a foreign enemy.
Battle of Berestechko: The Battle of Berestechko was fought between rebellious Zaporozhian Cossack, led by Hetman Bohdan Khmelnytsky, aided by their Crimean Tatar allies, and a Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth army under King John II Casimir. Lasting from June 28 to June 30, 1651, it took place in Volhynia. The number of Polish troops is uncertain. Duke Bogusaw Radziwi (one of Polish commanders) wrote that the Polish army had had 80,000 soldiers.
Ben Bova: Benjamin William Bova (born November 8, 1932) is an American science fiction author and editor.
Bohdan Khmelnytsky: Bohdan Zynoviy Mykhailovych Khmelnytsky (c. 1595 - 6 August 1657) was a hetman of the Zaporozhian Cossack Hetmanate of Ukraine. He led an uprising against the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth magnates (1648-1654) which resulted in the creation of a Cossack state. In 1654, he concluded the Treaty of Pereyaslav with the Tsardom of Russia, which led to the eventual loss of independence to the Russian Empire.
Battle of Okinawa: The Battle of Okinawa, codenamed Operation Iceberg, was fought on the Ryukyu Islands of Okinawa and was the largest amphibious assault in the Pacific Theater of World War II. The 82-day-long battle lasted from early April until mid-June, 1945. The battle has been referred to as the "Typhoon of Steel" in English, and tetsu no ame ("rain of steel") or tetsu no bf ("violent wind of steel") in Japanese.
Ballarat Victoria: Ballarat (formerly spelt "Ballaarat") is a regional city in Victoria, Australia. In terms of population, it is both the third largest city and the largest inland city in state. Ballarat is approximately 105 kilometres (65 mi) north-west of the state capital Melbourne. The city had a urban population of 78,221 on the 2006 Census night. In 2008 the city had an estimated statistical district population of 91,787.
Bain-marie: A bain-marie (also known as a water bath) is a French term for a piece of equipment used in science, industry, and cooking to heat materials gently and gradually to fixed temperatures, or to keep materials warm over a period of time.
Battle of El Alamein: There were two battles of El Alamein in World War II, both fought in 1942. The Battles occurred in Egypt in and around an area named after a railway stop called El Alamein at 304920.89N 285715.51E; / ;30.8224694 28.9543083; / 30.8224694; 28.9543083Coordinates: 304920.89N 285715.51E; / ;30.8224694 28.9543083; / 30.8224694; 28.9543083. First Battle of El Alamein - 1-27 July 1942 Second Battle of El Alamein - 23 October-4 November 1942
Brezhnev Doctrine: The Brezhnev Doctrine was a Soviet Union foreign policy, first and most clearly outlined by S. Kovalev in a September 26, 1968 Pravda article, entitled Sovereignty and the International Obligations of Socialist Countries.
Ballu tundu: Ballu tundu or Ballu Sardu is a traditional Italian folk dance from the island of Sardinia which is typically danced in a closed or open circle. The dance was described as early as 1805 by Mameli and by La Marmora in 1825. In northern and central Sardinia, the dance is lively and animated with leaps and agile movements and usually accompanied by a choir of three or more singers in the center of the circle.
Belgian disambiguation: Belgia or Belgian may refer to: Something or someone of, or related to, Belgium or the provinces of present-day Belgium A person from Belgium, or of Belgian descent. For information about the Belgian people, see Demographics of Belgium and Culture of Belgium.
Barbagia: Barbagia is an mountain area of inner Sardinia, western Italy. It is mostly comprised in the province of Nuoro and located alongside the Gennargentu massif. The name comes from Cicero, who described it as a land of Barbarians. This word derives from the Greek -, which means stuttering. The inhabitants were also known as latrones mastrucati, which means "thieves with a rough garment in wool".
B-17 Flying Fortress: The Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress is a four-engine heavy bomber aircraft developed for the United States Army Air Corps (USAAC), introduced in the 1930s. Competing against Douglas and Martin for a contract to build 200 bombers, the Boeing entry outperformed both competitors and more than met the Air Corps' expectations. Although Boeing lost the contract due to the prototype's crash, the Air Corps was so impressed with Boeing's design that they ordered 13 B-17s.
Brabham: Motor Racing Developments Ltd. , commonly known as Brabham, was a British racing car manufacturer and Formula One racing team. Founded in 1960 by two Australians, driver Jack Brabham and designer Ron Tauranac, the team won four drivers' and two constructors' world championships in its 30-year Formula One history. As of 2009, Jack Brabham's 1966 drivers' championship remains the only victory by a car bearing the driver's own name.
Bathyscaphe Trieste: The Trieste was a Swiss-designed deep-diving research bathyscaphe ("deep boat") with a crew of two, which reached a record-breaking depth of about 10,900 metres (35,761 ft), in the deepest known part of any ocean on Earth, the Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench, on January 23, 1960.
Battle of Bouvines: The Battle of Bouvines, 27 July 1214, was a conclusive medieval battle ending the twelve year old War of Bouvines
Zebrafish: The zebrafish, Danio rerio, is a tropical freshwater fish belonging to the minnow family. It is a popular aquarium fish, frequently sold under the trade name zebra danio, and is an important vertebrate model organism in scientific research.
Battle of Actium: The Battle of Actium was the decisive confrontation of the Final War of the Roman Republic. It was fought between the forces of Octavian and the combined forces of Mark Antony and Cleopatra. The battle took place on 2 September 31 BC, on the Ionian Sea near the Roman colony of Actium in Greece. Octavian's fleet was commanded by Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa, while Antony's fleet was supported by the ships of his beloved, Cleopatra VII, Queen of Ptolemaic Egypt.
Battle of Adwa: The Battle of Adwa (also known as Adowa or sometimes by the Italian name Adua) was fought on 1 March 1896 between Ethiopia and Italy near the town of Adwa, Ethiopia, in Tigray. It was the climactic battle of the First Italo-Ethiopian War.
Balance: Balance may refer to: *Analytical balance, a weighing scale. Balance (ability), an ability to maintain balance. Balance (accounting) Balancing machine, a machine that balances mechanical rotating parts to lessen vibration Media balance, the presentation of multiple viewpoints.
Bj rn Lomborg: Bjn Lomborg (born January 6, 1965) is a Danish author, academic, and environmental writer. He is an adjunct professor at the Copenhagen Business School, director of the Copenhagen Consensus Centre and a former director of the Environmental Assessment Institute in Copenhagen. He became internationally known for his best-selling and controversial book The Skeptical Environmentalist.
Bistability: Bistability is a fundamental phenomenon in nature. Something that is bistable can be resting in two states. These rest states need not be symmetric with respect to stored energy. The defining characteristic of bistability is simply that two stable states (minima) are separated by a peak (maximum). In physics, for an ensemble of particles, the bistability comes from the fact that its free energy has three critical points. Two of them are minima and the last is a maximum.
Brisbane Lions: Brisbane Lions Australian Football Club (the trading name for the Brisbane Bears-Fitzroy Football Club) is an Australian Football League club based in Brisbane, Queensland. It is the most successful AFL team this century, having appeared in four consecutive AFL Grand Finals between 2001 and 2004, winning three (2001, 2002 and 2003).
Banda Islands: The Banda Islands are a volcanic group of ten small volcanic islands in the Banda Sea, about 140 km south of Seram island and about 2000 km east of Java, and are part of the Indonesian province of Maluku. The main town and administrative centre is Bandanaira, located on the island of the same name. They rise out of 4-6 km deep ocean and have a total land area of approximately 180 km. They have a population of about 15,000.
Bruno of Querfurt: Saint Bruno of Querfurt (c. 970 - February 14 1009) (also known as Brun and Boniface) is a sainted missionary bishop and martyr, who was beheaded near the border of Kievan Rus and Lithuania while trying to spread Christianity in Eastern Europe. He is also called the second Apostle of the Prussians.
Brisbane Broncos: The Brisbane Broncos are an Australian professional rugby league football club based in the city of Brisbane, the capital of the state of Queensland. Founded in 1988, the Broncos play in Australasia's elite competition, the National Rugby League (NRL) premiership. They have won five premierships in the ARL / NRL Premiership and were winners of the only breakaway Super League competition in 1997.
Bloody Sunday 1972: Bloody Sunday sometimes called the Bogside Massacrewas an incident on 30 January 1972 in the Bogside area of Derry, Northern Ireland. Twenty-seven civil rights protesters were shot by the British Army Parachute Regiment during a Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association march. Thirteen people, seven of whom were teenagers, died immediately, while the death of another person 4 months later has been attributed to the injuries he received on the day.
Bo Diddley: Bo Diddley (December 30, 1928 - June 2, 2008), is the stage name for Ellas Otha Bates, an American rock and roll vocalist, guitarist, songwriter, and inventor. He was known as "The Originator" because of his key role in the transition from the blues to rock & roll, influencing a host of legendary acts including Buddy Holly, Jimi Hendrix, The Rolling Stones, and Eric Clapton. He introduced more insistent, driving rhythms and a hard-edged guitar sound on a wide-ranging catalog of songs.
Bride of the Monster: Bride of the Monster (originally known as Bride of the Atom) is a 1955 horror/science-fiction film starring Ba Lugosi in a traditional mad scientist role. It was produced, directed and co-written by Edward D. Wood, Jr.. A sequel, entitled Night of the Ghouls, was made in 1959, but went unreleased for decades.
B la Lugosi: Ba Lugosi (20 October 1882 - 16 August 1956) was a Hungarian actor of stage and screen, well known for playing Count Dracula in the Broadway play and subsequent film version. In the last years of his career he featured in several of Ed Wood's low budget films.
Berry paradox: The Berry paradox is a self-referential paradox arising from the expression "the smallest possible integer not definable by a given number of words. " Bertrand Russell, the first to discuss the paradox in print, attributed it to G. G. Berry (1867-1928), a junior librarian at Oxford's Bodleian library, who had suggested the more limited paradox arising from the expression "the first undefinable ordinal".
List of Olympic medalists in biathlon: This is the complete list of Olympic medalists in biathlon from 1960 to 2010. Medalists in military patrol, a precursor to biathlon, are listed separately.
Biathlon World Championships: The first Biathlon World Championships (BWCH) was held in 1958, with individual and team contests for men. The number of events has grown significantly over the years. Beginning in 1984, women biathletes had their own World Championships, and finally, from 1989, both genders have been participating in joint BWCHs. In 1978 the development was enhanced by the change from the large army rifle calibre to a small bore rifle, while the range to the target was reduced from 150 to 50 meters.
Inedia: Inedia is the alleged ability to live without food. Breatharianism is a related concept, in which believers claim food and possibly water are not necessary, and that humans can be sustained solely by prana (the vital life force in Hinduism), or according to some, by the energy in sunlight. The terms breatharianism or inedia may also refer to this philosophy practiced as a lifestyle in place of the usual diet.
Bihar disambiguation: Bihar is a state in India. Bihar may also refer to: Bihar (king), a khagan of the Khazars Bihar County, a historic county of the Kingdom of Hungary Bihor County or Bihar County, a county of Romania Bihar Sharif, headquarters of Nalanda district Bihar River, a border river of Palamu district, Jharkhand, India
Biotite: Biotite is a common phyllosilicate mineral within the mica group, with the approximate chemical formula K(Mg, Fe)3AlSi3O10(F, OH)2. More generally, it refers to the dark mica series, primarily a solid-solution series between the iron-endmember annite, and the magnesium-endmember phlogopite; more aluminous endmembers include siderophyllite. Biotite was named by J.F.L.
Brigham Young: Brigham Young (June 1, 1801 - August 29, 1877) was an American leader in the Latter Day Saint movement and a settler of the western United States. He was the President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) from 1847 until his death and was the founder of Salt Lake City and the first governor of Utah Territory, United States. Brigham Young University was named in his honor.
Burns supper: A Burns supper is a celebration of the life and poetry of the poet Robert Burns, author of many Scots poems. The suppers are normally held on or near the poet's birthday, 25 January, sometimes also known as Robert Burns Day or Burns Night (Burns Nicht), although they may in principle be held at any time of the year. Burns suppers are most common in Scotland and Northern Ireland, but occur wherever there are Burns Clubs, Scottish Societies, expatriate Scots, or lovers of Burns' poetry.
Belfast: Belfast is the capital of and the largest city in Northern Ireland, a constituent country of the United Kingdom. It is the seat of devolved government and legislative Northern Ireland Assembly. It is the largest urban area in the province of Ulster, the second largest city on the island of Ireland and the 15th largest city in the United Kingdom. The city of Belfast has a population of 267,500 and lies at the heart of the Belfast urban area, which has a population of 483,418.
Big Audio Dynamite: Big Audio Dynamite (later known as Big Audio Dynamite II and Big Audio, and often abbreviated BAD) were a British musical group formed in 1984 by the ex-guitarist and singer of The Clash, Mick Jones. The group were noted for their effective mixture of varied musical styles, incorporating elements of punk rock, dance music, hip hop, reggae, and funk. BAD's one constant throughout frequent shifts in membership and musical direction was the vocals provided by Mick Jones.
Bill Bryson: William McGuire "Bill" Bryson, OBE, (born December 8, 1951) is a best-selling American author of humorous books on travel, as well as books on the English language and on scientific subjects. Born an American, he was a resident of North Yorkshire, England, for most of his professional life before moving back to the US in 1995. In 2003 Bryson moved back to the UK and currently he lives in Norfolk.
Bentley: Bentley Motors Limited is a British manufacturer of automobiles founded on 18 January 1919 by Walter Owen Bentley (known as W.O. Bentley or just "W.O. "). Bentley had been previously known for his range of rotary aero-engines in World War I, the most famous being the Bentley BR1 as used in later versions of the Sopwith Camel. Since 1998, the company has been owned by the Volkswagen Group of Germany.
Chordate: Chordates are animals which are either vertebrates or one of several closely related invertebrates. They are united by having, for at least some period of their life cycle, a notochord, a hollow dorsal nerve cord, pharyngeal slits, an endostyle, and a post-anal tail. The phylum Chordata consists of three subphyla: Urochordata, represented by tunicates; Cephalochordata, represented by lancelets; and Craniata, which includes Vertebrata.
Charlize Theron: Charlize Theron (born August 7, 1975) is a South African actress, film producer, and former fashion model. She became an American citizen in 2007. She rose to fame in the late 1990s following her roles in 2 Days in the Valley, Mighty Joe Young, The Devil's Advocate, and The Cider House Rules.
Chess: Chess is a board game played between two players. It is played on a chessboard, which is a square-checkered board with 64 squares arranged in an eight-by-eight grid. At the start, each player controls sixteen pieces: one king, one queen, two rooks, two knights, two bishops, and eight pawns. The object of the game is to checkmate the opponent's king, whereby the king is under immediate attack and there is no way to remove or defend it from attack on the next move.
Charlie Chaplin: Sir Charles Spencer "Charlie" Chaplin, KBE (16 April 1889 - 25 December 1977) was an English comic actor and film director of the silent film era, and became one of the best known film stars in the world before the end of the First World War. Chaplin used mime, slapstick and other visual comedy routines, and continued well into the era of the talkies, though his films decreased in frequency from the end of the 1920s.
Country: In geography, a country is a geographical region. The term is often applied to a political division or the territory of a sovereign state, or to a smaller, or former, political division of a geographical region. Usually, but not always, a country coincides with a sovereign territory and is associated with a state, nation or government. In common usage, the term country is used in the sense of both nations and states, with definitions varying.
The World Factbook: The World Factbook (ISSN 1553-8133; also known as the CIA World Factbook) is a reference resource produced by the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States with almanac-style information about the countries of the world. It was originally an annual book, but the 2008 edition was the last to be printed on paper by the CIA. Other companiessuch as Skyhorse Publishinghave continued printing a paper edition.
Combinatorics: Combinatorics is a branch of discrete mathematics concerning the study of finite or countable discrete structures. Aspects of combinatorics include counting the structures of a given kind and size, deciding when certain criteria can be met, and constructing and analyzing objects meeting the criteria, finding "largest", "smallest", or "optimal" objects, and studying combinatorial structures arising in an algebraic context, or applying algebraic techniques to combinatorial problems.
Communication: Communication is a process of transferring information from one entity to another. Communication processes are sign-mediated interactions between at least two agents which share a repertoire of signs and semiotic rules. Communication is commonly defined as "the imparting or interchange of thoughts, opinions, or information by speech, writing, or signs".
Copenhagen: Copenhagen; Danish: Kenhavn is the capital and largest city of Denmark, with an urban population of 1,167,569 (2009) and a metropolitan population of 1,875,179 (2009). Copenhagen is situated on the islands of Zealand and Amager. First documented in the 11th century, Copenhagen became the capital of Denmark in the beginning of the 15th century and during the 17th century under the reign of Christian IV it became an important regional centre.
Classics: Classics (also known as Classical Studies) is the branch of the Humanities comprising the languages, literature, philosophy, history, art, archaeology and other culture of the ancient Mediterranean world; especially Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome during Classical Antiquity. Initially, study of the Classics (the period's literature) was the principal study in the humanities. Traditionally, the Classics studied the Mediterranean civilizations of Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome.
Cytoplasm: The cytoplasm is the part of a cell that is enclosed within the cell membrane. In eukaryotic cells, the contents of the cell nucleus are not part of the cytoplasm and are instead called the nucleoplasm. Also in eukaryotic cells, the cytoplasm contains organelles, such as mitochondria, which are filled with liquid that is kept separate from the rest of the cytoplasm by biological membranes.
Calculus: Calculus (Latin, ', a small stone used for counting) is a branch in mathematics focused on limits, functions, derivatives, integrals, and infinite series. This subject constitutes a major part of modern mathematics education. It has two major branches, differential calculus and integral calculus, which are related by the fundamental theorem of calculus.
Capital: Capital may refer to:
Christ: Christ is the English term for the Greek (Khrist) meaning "the anointed one". It is a translation of the Hebrew (Ma), usually transliterated into English as Messiah. The word is often misunderstood to be the surname of Jesus due to the numerous mentions of Jesus Christ in the Christian Bible. The word is in fact used as a title, hence its common reciprocal use Christ Jesus, meaning The Anointed One, or The Messiah, Jesus.
Chemistry: Chemistry is the science of matter and the changes it undergoes. The science of matter is also addressed by physics, but while physics takes a more general and fundamental approach, chemistry is more specialized, being concerned with the composition, behavior, structure, and properties of matter, as well as the changes it undergoes during chemical reactions.
Central Europe: Central Europe is the [[place lying between the variously defined areas of Eastern and Western Europe. The term and widespread interest in the region itself came back into fashion after the end of the Cold War, which, along with the Iron Curtain, had divided Europe politically into East and West, splitting Central Europe in half. The concept of Central Europe, and that of a common identity, is somewhat elusive.
Demographics of Canada: Population of Canada: 31,612,895 (2006 Census). Population of Canada: 33,873,357 (October 2009).
Politics of Canada: The politics of Canada function within a framework of constitutional monarchy and a federal system of parliamentary government with strong democratic traditions. Many of the country's legislative practices derive from the unwritten conventions of and precedents set by the United Kingdom's Westminster Parliament.
Telecommunications in Canada: Telecommunications in Canada include telephone, radio, television, and internet usage.
Economy of Canada: Canada has the tenth largest economy in the world (measured in US dollars at market exchange rates), is one of the world's wealthiest nations, and is a member of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and Group of Eight (G8). As with other developed nations, the Canadian economy is dominated by the service industry, which employs about three quarters of Canadians.
Canada United States relations: Relations between Canada and the United States span more than two centuries, sharing British colonial heritage, conflict during the early years of the United States, and the eventual development of one of the most successful international relationships in the modern world. Each is the other's chief economic partner, and indeed the two economies have increasingly merged since the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) of 1994.
Transportation in Canada: Canada is a developed country whose economy includes the extraction and export of raw materials from its large area.
Christianity: Christianity (from the Greek word X, Khristos, "Christ", literally "anointed one") is a monotheistic religion based on the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth as presented in the New Testament. Christians believe Jesus is the son of God, God having become man and the savior of humanity. Christians, therefore, commonly refer to Jesus as Christ or Messiah.
Computing: Computing is usually defined as the activity of using and improving computer technology, computer hardware and software. It is the computer-specific part of information technology. Computer science (or computing science) is the study and the science of the theoretical foundations of information and computation and their implementation and application in computer systems.
Casino: A casino is a facility that houses and accommodates certain types of gambling activities. Casinos are most commonly built near or combined with hotels, restaurants, retail shopping, cruise ships and other tourist attractions. Some casinos are known for hosting live entertainment events, such as stand-up comedy, concerts, and sporting events.
Geography of Canada: The geography of Canada is vast and diverse. Occupying most the northern portion of North America (41% of the continent), Canada is the world's second largest country in total area after Russia. Canada spans an immense territory between the Pacific Ocean to the west and the Atlantic Ocean to the east and the Arctic Ocean to the north (hence the country's motto "From sea to sea"), with the United States to the south and northwest, and the Arctic Ocean to the north; Greenland is to the northeast.
Central processing unit: The Central Processing Unit (CPU) or the processor is the portion of a computer system that carries out the instructions of a computer program, and is the primary element carrying out the computer's functions. This term has been in use in the computer industry at least since the early 1960s . The form, design and implementation of CPUs have changed dramatically since the earliest examples, but their fundamental operation remains much the same.
Khmer language: Khmer (), or Cambodian, is the language of the Khmer people and the official language of Cambodia. It is the second most widely spoken Austroasiatic language, with speakers in the tens of millions. Khmer has been considerably influenced by Sanskrit and Pali, especially in the royal and religious registers, through the vehicles of Hinduism and Buddhism.
Code: In communications, a code is a rule for converting a piece of info into another form or representation (one sign into another sign), not necessarily of the same type. In communications and information processing, encoding is the process by which information from a source is converted into symbols to be communicated. Decoding is the reverse process, converting these code symbols back into information understandable by a receiver.
Citizen Kane: Citizen Kane is a 1941 American drama film, directed by and starring Orson Welles. The film is widely considered the greatest of all time and is particularly praised for its innovative cinematography, music and narrative structure. Citizen Kane was Welles' first feature film. The film was nominated for Academy Awards in nine categories; it won for Academy Award for Best Writing (Original Screenplay) by Herman Mankiewicz and Welles. It was released by RKO Pictures.
Colombia: Colombia, officially the Republic of Colombia, is a constitutional republic in northwestern South America. Colombia is bordered to the east by Venezuela and Brazil; to the south by Ecuador and Peru; to the north by the Caribbean Sea; to the northwest by Panama; and to the west by the Pacific Ocean. Colombia also shares maritime borders with Jamaica, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica.
Cheirogaleidae: Cheirogaleidae is the family of strepsirrhine primates that contains the various dwarf and mouse lemurs. Like all other lemurs, cheirogaleids live exclusively on the island of Madagascar.
Callitrichidae: The Callitrichidae (synonym Hapalidae) is one of five families of New World monkeys. The family includes several genera, including the marmosets, tamarins, and lion tamarins. For a few years, this group of animals was regarded as a subfamily, called the Callitrichinae, of the Family Cebidae. This taxon was traditionally thought to be a primitive stem lineage, from which all the larger bodied platyrrhines evolved (see Hershkovitz, 1977).
Cebidae: The Cebidae is one of the five families of New World monkeys now recognised. It includes the capuchin monkeys and squirrel monkeys. These species are found throughout tropical and subtropical South and Central America.
Chondrichthyes: Chondrichthyes or cartilaginous fishes are jawed fish with paired fins, paired nares, scales, two-chambered hearts, and skeletons made of cartilage rather than bone. They are divided into two subclasses: Elasmobranchii and Holocephali (chimaera, sometimes called ghost sharks, which are sometimes separated into their own class). Within the infraphylum Gnathostomata, cartilaginous fishes are distinct from all other jawed vertebrates, the extant members of which all fall into Teleostomi.
Catatonia: Catatonia is a syndrome of psychological and motorological disturbances. Karl Ludwig Kahlbaum first described it in 1874: Die Katatonie oder das Spannungirresein (Catatonia or Tension Insanity).
Coast: The coast is defined as where the land meets the sea. A precise line that can be called a coastline cannot be determined due to the dynamic nature of tides. The term "coastal zone" can be used instead, which is a spatial zone where interaction of the sea and land processes occurs. Both the terms coast and coastal are often used to describe a geographic location or region; for example, New Zealand's West Coast, or the East and West Coasts of the United States.
Carnivora: The diverse order Carnivora (from Latin car "flesh", + vorre "to devour") includes over 260 species of placental mammals. Its members are formally referred to as carnivorans, while the word "carnivore" (often popularly applied to members of this group) can refer to any meat-eating animal.
Carl Linnaeus: Carl Linnaeus (Latinized as Carolus Linnaeus, also known after his ennoblement as, 23 May 1707 - 10 January 1778) was a Swedish botanist, physician, and zoologist, who laid the foundations for the modern scheme of binomial nomenclature. He is known as the father of modern taxonomy, and is also considered one of the fathers of modern ecology. Linnaeus was born in the countryside of Smand, in southern Sweden.
Cipher: In cryptography, a cipher (or cypher) is an algorithm for performing encryption or decryption - a series of well-defined steps that can be followed as a procedure. An alternative, less common term is encipherment. In non-technical usage, a cipher is the same thing as a code; however, the concepts are distinct in cryptography. In classical cryptography, ciphers were distinguished from codes.
Crony capitalism: Crony capitalism is a pejorative term describing an allegedly capitalist economy in which success in business depends on close relationships between businesspeople and government officials. It may be exhibited by favoritism in the distribution of legal permits, government grants, special tax breaks, and so forth.
Cold War 1947 1953: The Cold War (1947-1953) discusses the period within the Cold War from the Truman doctrine in 1947 to the Korean War in 1953. The Cold War began almost immediately following World War II and lasted through most of the rest of the twentieth century.
Country music: Country music (or country and Western) is a blend of popular musical forms originally found in the Southern United States and the Appalachian Mountains. It has roots in traditional folk music, Celtic music, gospel music and old-time music and evolved rapidly in the 1920s.
Lists of universities and colleges: Lists of universities and colleges. College and university rankings List of universities and colleges by country List of for-profit universities and colleges List of medieval universities List of oldest universities in continuous operation List of universities named after people List of art schools in Europe Lists of business schools Lists of law schools List of medical schools List of pharmacy schools List of university and college schools of music World's largest universities
Civil law: Civil law may refer to: Civil law (legal system), a system of law based on the Corpus Juris Civilis Civil law (area), a branch of continental law which is the general part of private law Civil law (common law), a branch of common law dealing with disputes between individuals or organizations (as opposed to criminal law) Secular or civil law; law that is not religious law law that is not military law or martial law
Constitution: A constitution is a set of rules for governmentoften codified as a written documentthat enumerates and limits the powers and functions of a political entity. These rules together make up, i.e. constitute, what the entity is. In the case of countries and autonomous regions of federal countries the term refers specifically to a constitution defining the fundamental political principles, and establishing the structure, procedures, powers and duties, of a government.
Cause of action: In the law, a cause of action (sometimes called a claim) is a set of facts sufficient to justify a right to sue. The phrase may refer to the legal theory upon which a plaintiff brings suit. To pursue a cause of action, a plaintiff pleads or alleges facts in a complaint, the pleading that initiates a lawsuit. A cause of action generally encompasses both the legal theory (the legal wrong the plaintiff claims to have suffered) and the remedy (the relief a court is asked to grant).
Common law: Common law is law developed by judges through decisions of courts and similar tribunals, rather than through legislative statutes or executive branch action. A "common law system" is a legal system that gives great precedential weight to common law, on the principle that it is unfair to treat similar facts differently on different occasions. The body of precedent is called "common law" and it binds future decisions.
Common descent: In evolutionary biology, a group of organisms have common descent if they have a common ancestor. All living organisms on Earth are descended from a common ancestor or ancestral gene pool. Charles Darwin proposed his theory of universal common descent through an evolutionary process in his On the Origin of Species (1859), and later in The Descent of Man (1871). This theory is now widely accepted by biologists.
Celtic music: Celtic music is a term utilised by artists, record companies, music stores and music magazines to describe a broad grouping of musical genres that evolved out of the folk musical traditions of the Celtic people of Western Europe. As such there is no real body of music which can be accurately be described as Celtic, but the term has stuck and may refer to both orally-transmitted traditional music and recorded popular music. Celtic music means two things mainly.
Court of Appeals disambiguation: Court of Appeals may refer to: An appellate court generally.
Constellation: In modern astronomy, a constellation is an internationally defined area of the celestial sphere. Historically, the term was also used to refer to a pattern formed by prominent stars within apparent close proximity to one another, and this practice is still common today.
Character: Character(s) may refer to:
Car disambiguation: A car is a type of vehicle, most often in American English an automobile. Car or CAR may also refer to:
Printer computing: In computing, a printer is a peripheral which produces a hard copy (permanent readable text and/or graphics) of documents stored in electronic form, usually on physical print media such as paper or transparencies. Many printers are primarily used as local peripherals, and are attached by a printer cable or, in most newer printers, a USB cable to a computer which serves as a document source.
Catalan language: Catalan is a Romance language, the national and official language of Andorra, and a co-official language in the Spanish autonomous communities of Catalonia, the Balearic Islands and Valencian Community, where it is known as Valenci, as well as in the city of Alghero on the Italian island of Sardinia.
STS-51-F: STS-51-F (Spacelab 2) was the eighth flight of Space Shuttle Challenger, and the nineteenth shuttle flight. The payload with most publicity was the Carbonated Beverage Dispenser Evaluation, which was an experiment where both Coca-Cola and Pepsi tried to make their drinks available to astronauts. Both fizzed excessively in the low cabin pressure..
Copyright: Copyright is the set of exclusive rights granted to the author or creator of an original work, including the right to copy, distribute and adapt the work. These rights can be licensed, transferred and/or assigned. Copyright lasts for a certain time period after which the work is said to enter the public domain. Copyright applies to a wide range of works that are substantive and fixed in a medium.
Character encoding: A character encoding system consists of a code that pairs each character from a given repertoire with something else, such as a sequence of natural numbers, octets or electrical pulses, in order to facilitate the transmission of data (generally numbers and/or text) through telecommunication networks or storage of text in computers.
Classical period music: The dates of the Classical period in Western music are generally accepted as being between 1750 to 1820. However, the term classical music is used colloquially to describe a variety of Western musical styles from the ninth century to the present, and especially from the sixteenth or seventeenth to the nineteenth. This article is about the specific period from 1750 to 1820. The Classical period falls between the Baroque and the Romantic periods.
Cogency: An argument is cogent if and only if the truth of the argument's premises would render the truth of the conclusion probable. Consider this example: Without looking, Lauren pulled out 100 marbles from a bag; 95 of the marbles Lauren pulled out were red. Therefore, the next marble Lauren pulls out from the bag will be red. The truth of the premise would, indeed, make the conclusion probable. Therefore, this argument is cogent.
Control character: In computing and telecommunication, a control character or non-printing character is a code point in a character set, that does not in itself represent a written symbol. It is in-band signaling in the context of character encoding.
Computer data storage: Computer data storage, often called storage or memory, refers to computer components, devices, and recording media that retain digital data used for computing for some interval of time. Computer data storage provides one of the core functions of the modern computer, that of information retention. It is one of the fundamental components of all modern computers, and coupled with a central processing unit (CPU, a processor), implements the basic computer model used since the 1940s.
Cone: A cone (from the Greek , Latin conus) is a basic geometrical shape; see cone (geometry). Cone may also refer to:
Chemical equilibrium: In a chemical process, chemical equilibrium is the state in which the chemical activities or concentrations of the reactants and products have no net change over time. Usually, this would be the state that results when the forward chemical process proceeds at the same rate as their reverse reaction. The reaction rates of the forward and reverse reactions are generally not zero but, being equal, there are no net changes in any of the reactant or product concentrations.
Combination: In combinatorial mathematics, a k-combination of a finite set S is a subset of k distinct elements of S. Specifying a subset does not arrange them in a particular order; by contrast, producing the k distinct elements in a specific order defines a sequence without repetition, also called k-permutation (but which is not a permutation of S in the usual sense of that term).
Computer software: Computer software, or just software is a general term primarily used for digitally stored data such as computer programs and other kinds of information read and written by computers. Today, this includes data that has not traditionally been associated with computers, such as film, tapes and records. The term was coined in order to contrast to the old term hardware; in contrast to hardware, software is intangible, meaning it "cannot be touched".
Carbon: Carbon is the chemical element with symbol C and atomic number 6. As a member of group 14 on the periodic table, it is nonmetallic and tetravalentmaking four electrons available to form covalent chemical bonds. There are three naturally occurring isotopes, with C and C being stable, while C is radioactive, decaying with a half-life of about 5730 years. Carbon is one of the few elements known since antiquity. The name "carbon" comes from Latin language carbo, coal.
Computer programming: Computer programming (often shortened to programming or coding) is the process of writing, testing, debugging/troubleshooting, and maintaining the source code of computer programs. This source code is written in a programming language. The code may be a modification of an existing source or something completely new. The purpose of programming is to create a program that exhibits a certain desired behaviour (customization).
Consolation of Philosophy: Consolation of Philosophy is a philosophical work by Boethius, written around the year AD 524. It has been described as the single most important and influential work in the West on Medieval and early Renaissance Christianity, and is also the last great Western work that can be called Classical.
Character encodings in HTML: The possibility to use non-default character encodings in HTML was introduced in HTML4 (1997), despite the fact that HTML was first introduced in 1991. If an HTML document includes characters outside the range of ASCII, the information's integrity and universal browser display may be harmed if the document does not define the used character encoding.
Personal computer hardware: A personal computer is made up of multiple physical components of computer hardware, upon which can be installed an operating system and a multitude of software to perform the operator's desired functions. Though a PC comes in many different forms, a typical personal computer consists of a case or chassis in a tower shape (desktop) and the following parts: The motherboard is the main component inside the case.
Charlemagne: Charlemagne was King of the Franks from 768 to his death. He expanded the Frankish kingdom into a Frankish Empire that incorporated much of Western and Central Europe. During his reign, he conquered Italy and was crowned Imperator Augustus by Pope Leo III on 25 December 800 which temporarily made him a rival of the Byzantine Emperor in Constantinople. His rule is also associated with the Carolingian Renaissance, a revival of art, religion, and culture through the medium of the Catholic Church.
Czechoslovakia: Czechoslovakia (eskoslovensko) was a sovereign state in Central Europe which existed from October 1918, when it declared its independence from the Austro-Hungarian Empire, until 1992. From 1939 to 1945 the state did not have de facto existence, due to its forced division and partial incorporation into Nazi Germany, but the Czechoslovak government-in-exile nevertheless continued to exist during this time period.
Carbon nanotube: Carbon nanotubes (CNTs) are allotropes of carbon with a cylindrical nanostructure. Nanotubes have been constructed with length-to-diameter ratio of up to 132,000,000:1, which is significantly larger than any other material. These cylindrical carbon molecules have novel properties that make them potentially useful in many applications in nanotechnology, electronics, optics and other fields of materials science, as well as potential uses in architectural fields.
Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon: Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon is a Chinese-language film in the wuxia style, released in 2000. A China-Hong Kong-Taiwan-United States co-production, the film was directed by Ang Lee and featured an international cast of ethnic Chinese actors, including Chow Yun-Fat, Michelle Yeoh, Zhang Ziyi and Chang Chen. The movie was based on the fourth novel in a pentalogy, known in China as the Crane-Iron Pentalogy, by wuxia novelist Wang Dulu.
Catalan: Catalan can refer to: An inhabitant of Catalonia Catalan people Catalan language Pasos Catalans, territories where Catalan language is spoken.
Computer science: Computer science or computing science (sometimes abbreviated CS) is the study of the theoretical foundations of information and computation, and of practical techniques for their implementation and application in computer systems. It is frequently described as the systematic study of algorithmic processes that create, describe, and transform information. According to Peter J.
Creationism: Creationism is the religious belief that humanity, life, the Earth, and the universe were created in some form by a supernatural being or beings. The term is usually used to refer to the denial, on religious grounds, that biological processes (most commonly, evolution) can adequately account for the history, diversity, and complexity of life on earththe creation-evolution controversy.
Czech Republic: The Czech Republic is a country in Central Europe. The country borders Poland to the northeast, Germany to the west and northwest, Austria to the south and Slovakia to the east. The capital and largest city is Prague. The country is composed of the historic regions of Bohemia and Moravia, as well as parts of Silesia. The Czech Republic has been a member of NATO since 1999 and of the European Union since 2004.
History of Chad: Chad, officially the Republic of Chad, is a landlocked country in central Africa. It borders Libya to the north, Sudan to the east, the Central African Republic to the south, Cameroon and Nigeria to the southwest, and Niger to the west. Due to its distance from the sea and its largely desert climate, the country is sometimes referred to as the "Dead Heart of Africa".
Demographics of Chad: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Chad, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The people of Chad speak more than 100 different languages and divide themselves into many ethnic groups. However, language and ethnicity are not the same. Moreover, neither element can be tied to a particular physical type.
Politics of Chad: Politics of Chad takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Chad is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. Chad is one of the most corrupt countries in the world.
Transport in Chad: Transport infrastructure within Chad is generally poor, especially in the north and east of the country. There are no railways and river transport is limited to the south-west corner. Roads are mostly unsurfaced and are likely to be impassable during the wet season, especially in the southern half of the country. In the north, roads are merely tracks across the desert and land mines continue to present a danger. Draft animals remain important in much of the country.
Military of Chad: The Military of Chad consists of the Armed Forces (includes Ground Force, Air Force, and Gendarmerie), Republican Guard, Rapid Intervention Force, Police, and National and Nomadic Guard (GNNT). Currently the main task of the Chadian military is to combat the various rebel forces inside the country.
Economy of Chad: Landlocked Chad's economic development suffers from its geographic remoteness, drought, lack of infrastructure, and political turmoil. About 85% of the population depends on agriculture, including the herding of livestock. Of Africa's Francophone countries, Chad benefited least from the 50% devaluation of their currencies in January 1994.
Foreign relations of Chad: The Foreign relations of Chad are motivated primarily by the desire for outside investment in Chadian industry and support for Chadian President Idriss Dy. Chad is officially non-aligned but has close relations with France, the former occupying imperial power. Relations with neighbouring Libya, and Sudan vary periodically. Lately, the Idris Dy regime has been waging an intermittent proxy war with Sudan.
Colloid: A colloid is a type of mixture in which one substance is dispersed evenly throughout another. A colloidal system consists of two separate phases: a dispersed phase (or internal phase) and a continuous phase (or dispersion medium). A colloidal system may be solid, liquid, or gaseous. Many familiar substances are colloids, as shown in the chart below. As well as these naturally occurring colloids, modern chemical process industries utilize high shear mixing technology to create novel colloids.
Commentary: Commentary can refer to: Play-by-play commentary, or colour commentary, accompanying sporting events on TV or radio Commentary (magazine), an American public affairs journal, founded in 1945 and formerly published by the American Jewish Committee The audio commentary track for DVDs Political commentary A literary commentary, or close reading Literary criticism A philological commentary Bible commentary In Theravada Buddhism, commentaries on the Pali Canon are known as atthakatha.
Lewis Carroll: Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (27 January 1832 - 14 January 1898), better known by the pseudonym Lewis Carroll, was an English author, mathematician, logician, Anglican deacon and a photographer. His most famous writings are Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and its sequel Through the Looking-Glass, as well as the poems "The Hunting of the Snark" and "Jabberwocky", all examples of the genre of literary nonsense.
Geography of Chad: Chad is a land-locked country in north central Africa measuring 1,284,000 square kilometers (495,755 sq mi), roughly three times the size of California. Most of its ethnically and linguistically diverse population lives in the south, with densities ranging from 54 persons per square kilometers in the Logone River basin to 0.1 persons in the northern B.E.T. desert region, which is larger than France.
Riding shotgun: To ride shotgun is to sit in the front passenger seat when riding in a car or other vehicle. It is also used to mean giving actual or figurative support or aid to someone in a situation or project, i.e. to "watch their back. " It is a phrase commonly and mostly heard in the English-speaking countries.
Cooking: Cooking is the process of preparing food by applying heat. Cooks select and combine ingredients using a wide range of tools and methods. In the process, the flavor, texture, appearance, and chemical properties of the ingredients can change. Cooking techniques and ingredients vary widely across the world, reflecting unique environmental, economic, and cultural traditions. Cooks themselves also vary widely in skill and training.
Chinese: Chinese refers to anything pertaining to China.
Card game: A card game is any game using playing cards as the primary things with which the game is played, be they traditional or game-specific. Countless card games exist, including families of related games. Some games have formally standardized rules, while rules for others can vary by region, culture, and person.
Cross-stitch: Cross-stitch is a popular form of counted-thread embroidery in which X-shaped stitches in a tiled, raster-like pattern are used to form a picture. Cross-stitch is usually executed on easily countable evenweave fabric called aida cloth. The stitcher counts the threads in each direction so that the stitches are of uniform size and appearance. This form of cross-stitch is also called counted cross-stitch in order to distinguish it from other forms of cross-stitch.
Casino game: Games available in most casinos are commonly called casino games. In a casino game, the players gamble casino chips on various possible random outcomes or combinations of outcomes. Casino games are available in online casinos, where permitted by law. Casino games can also be played outside of casinos for entertainment purposes, some on machines that simulate gambling.
Video game: A video game is an electronic game that involves interaction with a user interface to generate visual feedback on a video device. The word video in video game traditionally referred to a raster display device. However, with the popular use of the term "video game", it now implies any type of display device. The electronic systems used to play video games are known as platforms; examples of these are personal computers and video game consoles.
Category of being: In metaphysics, the different kinds or ways of being are called categories of being or simply categories. To investigate the categories of being is to determine the most fundamental and the broadest classes of entities. A distinction between such categories, in making the categories or applying them, is called an ontological distinction.
Coitus interruptus: Coitus interruptus, also known as withdrawal or the pull-out method, is a birth-control technique in which a man withdraws his penis prior to ejaculation during sexual intercourse, with the semen being ejaculated outside of and away from the vagina. It is and has been widely used for at least 2,000 years as a method of contraception. This method was used by an estimated 38 million couples worldwide in 1991. Medical professionals view withdrawal as an ineffective method of birth control.
Condom: A condom is a barrier device most commonly used during sexual intercourse to reduce the likelihood of pregnancy and spreading sexually transmitted diseases. It is put on a man's erect penis and physically blocks ejaculated semen from entering the body of a sexual partner. Because condoms are waterproof, elastic, and durable, they are also used in a variety of secondary applications.
Country code: Country codes are short alphabetic or numeric geographical codes developed to represent countries and dependent areas, for use in data processing and communications. Several different systems have been developed to do this. The best known of these is ISO 3166-1. The term country code frequently refers to international dialing codes, the E.164 country calling codes.
Concrete: Concrete is a construction material composed of cement as well as other cementitious materials such as fly ash and slag cement, aggregate (generally a coarse aggregate such as gravel, limestone, or granite, plus a fine aggregate such as sand), water, and chemical admixtures. The word concrete comes from the Latin word "concretus" (meaning compact or condensed), the past participle of "concresco", from "com-" (together) and "cresco" (to grow).
Physical cosmology: Physical cosmology, as a branch of astronomy, is the study of the largest-scale structures and dynamics of our universe and is concerned with fundamental questions about its formation and evolution. Cosmology involves itself with studying the motions of the celestial bodies and the first cause. For most of human history, it has been a branch of metaphysics and religion.
Calendar: A calendar is a system of organizing days for social, religious, commercial, or administrative purposes. This is done by giving names to periods of time, typically days, weeks, months, and years. The name given to each day is known as a date. Periods in a calendar (such as years and months) are usually, though not necessarily, synchronized with the cycle of the sun or the moon.
Cladistics: Cladistics is a form of biological systematics that classifies species of organisms into hierarchical monophyletic groups. It can be distinguished from other taxonomic systems, such as phenetics, by its focus on shared derived characters.
Candela: The candela is the SI unit of luminous intensity; that is, power emitted by a light source in a particular direction, weighted by the luminosity function (a standardized model of the sensitivity of the human eye to different wavelengths, also known as the luminous efficiency function). A common candle emits light with a luminous intensity of roughly one candela.
Cambrian: The Cambrian is the first geological period of the Paleozoic Era, lasting from 542 &plusmn; 0.3 million years ago to 488.3 &plusmn; 1.7 million years ago; it is succeeded by the Ordovician. Its subdivisions, and indeed its base, are somewhat in flux. The period was established by Adam Sedgwick, who named it after Cambria, the classical name for Wales, where Britain's Cambrian rocks are best exposed. The Cambrian is unique in its unusually high proportion of lagerstten.
Condensed matter physics: Condensed matter physics is the field of physics that deals with the macroscopic and microscopic physical properties of matter. In particular, it is concerned with the "condensed" phases that appear whenever the number of constituents in a system is extremely large and the interactions between the constituents are strong. The most familiar examples of condensed phases are solids and liquids, which arise from the electromagnetic forces between atoms.
Cultural anthropology: Cultural anthropology is one of four or five fields of anthropology (the holistic study of humanity). It is the branch of anthropology that examines culture as a meaningful scientific concept. Cultural anthropologists study cultural variation among humans, collecting data about the impact of global economic and political processes on local cultural realities. Anthropologists use a variety of methods, including participant observation, interviews, and surveys.
Inflation cosmology: In physical cosmology, cosmic inflation, cosmological inflation or just inflation is the theorized exponential expansion of the universe at the end of the grand unification epoch, 10 seconds after the Big Bang, driven by a negative-pressure vacuum energy density. The term "inflation" is also used to refer to the hypothesis that inflation occurred, to the theory of inflation, or to the inflationary epoch. The inflationary hypothesis was proposed by American physicist Alan Guth in 1980.
Conversion of units: Conversion of units refers to conversion factors between different units of measurement for the same quantity.
City: A city is a relatively large and permanent settlement, particularly a large urban settlement. Although there is no agreement on how a city is distinguished from a town within general English language meanings, many cities have a particular administrative, legal, or historical status based on local law. For example, an article of incorporation approved by the local state legislature distinguishes a city government from a town in Massachusetts.
Chervil: Chervil (Anthriscus cerefolium) is a delicate annual herb related to parsley. Sometimes called garden chervil, it is used to season mild-flavoured dishes and is a constituent of the French herb mixture fines herbes.
Chives: Chives (Allium schoenoprasum) are the smallest species of the onion family Alliaceae, native to Europe, Asia and North America. Allium schoenoprasum is also the only species of Allium native to both the New and the Old World. Its species name derives from the Greek skhonos and pron. Its English name, chive, derives from the French word cive, which was derived from cepa, the Latin word for onion.
Chris Morris satirist: Christopher Morris is an English comedian, writer, director, actor and former radio DJ. Morris began his career in radio before moving into television. He found fame in the nineties fronting the spoof current affairs shows The Day Today and Brass Eye and became known for his intelligent yet often highly-controversial brand of comedy. Morris tends to stay out of the public eye and has become one of the more enigmatic figures in British comedy.
Critical philosophy: Attributed to Immanuel Kant, the critical philosophy movement sees the primary task of philosophy as criticism rather than justification of knowledge; criticism, for Kant, meant judging as to the possibilities of knowledge before advancing to knowledge itself (from the Greek kritike, or "art of judgment").
Carboniferous: The Carboniferous is a geologic period and system that extends from the end of the Devonian Period, about 359.2 2.5 Ma (million years ago), to the beginning of the Permian Period, about 299.0 0.8 Ma. The Carboniferous was a time of glaciation, low sea level and mountain building; a minor marine extinction event occurred in the middle of the period. The name comes from the Latin word for coal, carbo. Carboniferous means "coal-bearing".
Colorado: Colorado is a state of the United States of America that is located mostly in the Rocky Mountain Range of North America. Colorado can also be considered to be part of the Western States or the Southwestern States of the United States. In infrequent instances eastern Colorado is considered to be part of the Midwestern United States (since that part of the state is located on the Great Plains.
Comoros: The Comoros, officially the Union of the Comoros is an island nation in the Indian Ocean, located off the eastern coast of Africa, on the northern end of the Mozambique Channel, between northern Madagascar and northeastern Mozambique. The nearest countries to the Comoros are Mozambique, Tanzania, Madagascar, and the Seychelles. It is the southernmost member state of the Arab League. At 1,862 km (719 sq mi), (excluding Mayotte) the Comoros is the third-smallest African nation by area.
People's Republic of China: The People's Republic of China (PRC), commonly known as China, is a country in East Asia. It is the most populous state in the world with over 1.3 billion people, about one in five humans. China is ruled by the Communist Party of China under a single-party system, and has jurisdiction over 22 provinces, five autonomous regions, four directly administered municipalities, and two highly autonomous special administrative regions (SARs). The PRC's capital is Beijing.
California: California is the most populous state in the United States, and the third largest by area. California is the second most populous sub-national entity in the Americas, behind only S Paulo, Brazil. It is located on the West Coast of the United States, and is bordered by Oregon to the north, Nevada to the northeast, Arizona to the southeast, the Mexican state of Baja California to the south, and the Pacific Ocean to the west.
Commelinales: Commelinales is the botanical name of an order of flowering plants. It's considered that the Commelinales together with Zingiberales evolved in the Late Cretaceous around 80 millions of years ago. Two of the best-known genera in the order are Commelina and Tradescantia.
Cyperales: Cyperales is a name for an order of flowering plants. As used in the Engler system (update, of 1964) and in the Wettstein system it consisted of only the single family. In the Cronquist system it is used for an order (placed in subclass Commelinidae) and circumscribed as (1981): order Cyperales family Cyperaceae family Poaceae (or Gramineae) The APG II system, used here, assigns the plants involved to the order Poales.
Cucurbitales: The Cucurbitales are an order of flowering plants, included in the rosid group of dicotyledons. This order mostly belongs to tropical areas, with limited presence in subtropic and temperate regions. The order includes various shrubs and trees, together with many herbs and climbers. One of major characteristics of the Cucurbitales is the presence of unisexual flowers, mostly pentacyclic, with thick pointed petals (whenever present) (Matthews and Endress, 2004).
Coin collecting: Coin collecting is the collecting or trading of coins or other forms of minted legal tender. Coins of interest to collectors often include those that circulated for only a brief time, coins with mint errors and especially beautiful or historically significant pieces. Coin collecting can be differentiated from numismatics in that the latter is the systematic study of currency. Though closely related, the two disciplines are not necessarily the same.
Contra dance: Contra dance (also contradance, contra-dance and other variant spellings) refers to several partnered folk dance styles in which couples dance in two facing lines of indefinite length. Sometimes described as New England folk dance, contra dances can be found around the world, though they are especially popular in North America.
Columbia River: The Columbia River is the largest river in the Pacific Northwest region of North America. The river rises in the Rocky Mountains in British Columbia, Canada, flows northwest and then south into the U.S. state of Washington, then turns west to form most of the border between Washington and the state of Oregon before emptying into the Pacific Ocean. The river is 1,243 miles (2,000 km) long, and its largest tributary is the Snake River.
Crokinole: Crokinole is an action board game similar in various ways to pitchnut, carrom, marbles, and shove ha'penny, with elements of shuffleboard and curling reduced to table-top size. Players take turns shooting discs across the circular playing surface, trying to have their discs land in the higher-scoring regions of the board, while also attempting to knock away opposing discs.
Cross ownership: Cross ownership is a method of reinforcing business relationships by owning stock in the companies with which a given company does business. In the US, it also refers to a type of investment in different mass-media properties in one market.
Cardiology: Cardiology (from Greek , kardi, "heart"; and -, ') is a medical specialty dealing with disorders of the heart. The field includes diagnosis and treatment of congenital heart defects, coronary artery disease, heart failure, valvular heart disease and electrophysiology. Physicians specializing in this field of medicine are called cardiologists.
Capcom: Capcom Co. , Ltd. is an international developer and publisher of video games headquartered in Osaka, Japan. It was founded in 1979 as Japan Capsule Computers, a company devoted to the manufacturing and distribution of electronic game machines. In the 12 months ended March 31, 2009, it has reported an increase in sales of 10.6 percent to 91,878 million yen ($924 million/615 million), while net income rose 3.3 percent to 8,063 million yen ($81.1 million/53.4 million).
Class warfare: Class warfare may refer to: Class conflict, the tensions between members or groups of different social classes Class Warfare, a book of interviews with Noam Chomsky Class War was a UK class struggle based group
Capitalism: Capitalism is an economic and social system in which capital and land, the non-labor factors of production (also known as the means of production), are privately owned; labor, goods and resources are traded in markets; and profit, after taxes, is distributed to the owners or invested in technologies and, industries. Also see rise of financial capitalism, which controls all other forms of capitalism.
Politics of Cambodia: The politics of Cambodia formally takes place according to the nation's constitution (enacted in 1993) in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Cambodia is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in the two chambers of parliament, the National Assembly of Cambodia and the Senate.
History of Cambodia: Carbon 14 dating of a cave at Laang Spean in northwest Cambodia reveals people who made pots were living in Camboda as early as 4200 B.C.E. (Before the Common Era). Further archaeological evidence indicates that other parts of the region now called Cambodia were inhabited from around 1000-2000 B.C.E. by a Neolithic culture. Skulls and human bones found at Samrong Sen date from 1500 B.C.E.
Demographics of Cambodia: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Cambodia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Between 1874 and 1921, the total population of Cambodia increased from about 946,000 to 2.4 million. By 1950 it had increased to between 3,710, 107 and 4,073,967, and in 1962 it had reached 5.7 million.
Economy of Cambodia: The economy of Cambodia has seen rapid progress in the last decade. Per capita income, although rapidly increasing, is low compared with most neighbouring countries. The main domestic activity on which most rural households depend is agriculture and its related sub-sectors. Manufacturing output is varied but is not very extensive and is mostly conducted on a small-scale and informal basis. The service sector is heavily concentrated in trading activities and catering-related services.
Telecommunications in Cambodia: Communications in Cambodia, specifically the postal, telegraph and telegram services under the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Posts were restored throughout most of the country in the early 1980s during the People's Republic of Kampuchea regime after being disrupted under the Khmer Rouge.
Geography of Cambodia: Cambodia is a country in Southeastern Asia, bordering the Gulf of Thailand, between Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos. Its approximate geographical coordinates are 13 105; / ;13 105; / 13; 105. Its 2,572 km border is split among Vietnam (1,228 km), Thailand (803 km) and Laos (541 km), as well as 443 km of coastline. Cambodia covers 181,040 square kilometres in the southwestern part of the Indochina peninsula.
Foreign relations of Cambodia: The Royal Cambodian Government (RGC) has established diplomatic relations with most countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, and France, as well as all of its Asian neighbors, to include the People's Republic of China, Vietnam, Laos, South Korea, North Korea, and Thailand. The RGC is a member of most major international organizations, including the United Nations and its specialized agencies such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.
Capricornus: Capricornus is one of the constellations of the zodiac; it is often called Capricorn, especially when referring to the corresponding astrological sign. Its name is Latin for "horned male goat" or "goat horn", and it is commonly represented in the form of a sea-goat: a mythical creature that is half goat, half fish. Its symbol is (Unicode #2651). Capricornus is one of the 88 modern constellations, and was also one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy.
Architecture of Cambodia: The period of Angkor is the period from approximately the latter half of the 8th century A.D. to the first half of the 15th century. If precise dates are required, the beginning may be set in 802 A.D. , when the Khmer King Jayavarman II pronounced himself universal monarch (chakravartin) and declared independence from Java, and the end may be set in 1431 A.D. , when Thai invaders from the kingdom of Ayutthaya sacked Angkor and caused the Khmer elite to migrate to Phnom Penh.
Transport in Cambodia: War and continuing fighting severely damaged Cambodia's transportation system - a system that had been inadequately developed in peacetime. The country's weak infrastructure hindered emergency relief efforts and created tremendous problems of procurement of supplies in general and of distribution. Cambodia received Soviet technical assistance and equipment to support the maintenance of the transportation network.
Cameroon: The Republic of Cameroon is a unitary republic of central and western Africa. It is bordered by Nigeria to the west; Chad to the northeast; the Central African Republic to the east; and Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and the Republic of the Congo to the south. Cameroon's coastline lies on the Bight of Bonny, part of the Gulf of Guinea and the Atlantic Ocean. The country is called "Africa in miniature" for its geological and cultural diversity.
Demographics of Cameroon: The demographic profile of Cameroon is complex for a country of its population. Cameroon comprises an estimated 250 distinct ethnic groups, which may be formed into five large regional-cultural divisions: western highlanders, including the Bamileke, Bamum (or Bamoun), and many smaller Tikar groups in the Northwest (est.
History of Cameroon: This article documents the history of Cameroon. The earliest inhabitants of Cameroon were probably the Baka (Pygmies). They still inhabit the forests of the south and east provinces. Bantu speakers originating in the Cameroonian highlands were among the first groups to move out before other invaders. The Mandara kingdom in the Mandara Mountains was founded around 1500 and erected magnificent fortified structures, the purpose and exact history of which are still unresolved.
Politics of Cameroon: Politics of Cameroon takes place in a framework of a unitary presidential republic, whereby the President of Cameroon is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly of Cameroon.
Economy of Cameroon: For a quarter-century following independence, Cameroon was one of the most prosperous countries in Africa. The drop in commodity prices for its principal exports - petroleum, cocoa, coffee, and cotton - in the mid-1980s, combined with an overvalued currency and economic mismanagement, led to a decade-long recession. Real per capita GDP fell by more than 60% from 1986 to 1994. The current account and fiscal deficits widened, and foreign debt grew.
Geography of Cameroon: At 183,568 sq mi (475,440 km), Cameroon is the world's 53rd-largest country. It is comparable in size to Papua New Guinea, and somewhat larger than the U.S. state of California. Cameroon's landmass is 181,252 sq mi (469,440 km), with 2,317 sq mi (6,000 km) of water. The country is located in Central and West Africa, bordering the Bight of Biafra, between Equatorial Guinea and Nigeria.
Military of Cameroon: The Cameroonian military generally has been an apolitical force dominated by civilian control. Traditional dependence on the French defense capability, although reduced, continues to be the case as French military advisers remain closely involved in preparing the Cameroonian forces for deployment to the contested Bakassi Peninsula. The armed forces number 26,000-27,000 personnel in ground, air, and naval forces.
Geography of Cape Verde: Cape Verde is a group of arid Atlantic islands which are home to a number of birds and reptiles and constitute a unique ecoregion in the World Wildlife Fund classification.
Politics of Cape Verde: Politics of Cape Verde takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Cape Verde is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Military of Cape Verde: Military of Cape Verde Military branches: People's Revolutionary Armed Forces (FARP): Army, Coast Guard (includes maritime air wing) Military manpower - availability: males age 16-49: 103,650 (2008) Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 16-49: 83,082 (2008) Military expenditures - dollar figure: $7.18 million (2005) Military expenditures - percent of GDP: 0.7% (2005) Active troops: 1,200
Foreign relations of Cameroon: Cameroon's noncontentious, low-profile approach to foreign relations puts it squarely in the middle of other African and developing country states on major issues. It supports the principles of noninterference in the affairs of third world countries and increased assistance to underdeveloped countries.
Demographics of Cape Verde: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Cape Verde, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The Cape Verde archipelago was uninhabited when the Portuguese discovered it in 1456. African slaves were brought to the islands to work on Portuguese plantations. As a result, Cape Verdeans are mulattos, who have mixed African and European origins.
Transport in Cape Verde: Railways: 0 km - There are no railways in Cape Verde, although there was a short overhead conveyor system for salt from the open salt lake on Sal to the port at Pedro de Lume and a short stretch of rail track to the pier at Santa Maria used for a similar purpose. Both are now disused.
Foreign relations of Cape Verde: Cape Verde follows a policy of nonalignment and seeks cooperative relations with all friendly states. Angola, Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, France, Germany, Portugal, Senegal, Russia, and the United States maintain embassies in Praia. Cape Verde is actively interested in foreign affairs, especially in Africa. It has bilateral relations with some Lusophone nations and holds membership in a number of international organizations.
Cayman Islands: The Cayman Islands is a British overseas territory located in the western Caribbean Sea. The territory comprises the islands of Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, and Little Cayman, located south of Cuba and northwest of Jamaica. The territory is a major offshore financial centre in the Caribbean.
History of the Cayman Islands: The Cayman Islands are a Caribbean British overseas territory that have been under various governments since their discovery by Europeans. Christopher Columbus sighted the Cayman Islands on May 10, 1503 and named them Las Tortugas after the numerous sea turtles seen swimming in the surrounding waters. Columbus had found the two small islands and it was these two islands that he named "Las Tortugas".
Politics of the Cayman Islands: Politics of the Cayman Islands takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic overseas territory, whereby the Premier is the head of government, and of a two-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Legislative Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Demographics of the Cayman Islands: The population of the Cayman Islands reflects its status as a British overseas territory, its history as a former dependency of Jamaica, and its present financial partnerships with the United States and other countries. The vast majority of its 45,436 residents live on the island of Grand Cayman. According to the Cayman Islands Chamber of Commerce, in 1999 an estimated 1,300 people lived on Cayman Brac, while only 115 resided on Little Cayman.
Economy of the Cayman Islands: The economy of the Cayman Islands, a British overseas territory located in the western Caribbean Sea, is mainly fueled by the tourism sector and by the financial services sector, together representing 70-80 percent of the country's gross domestic product (GDP). The Cayman Island Investment Bureau, a government agency, has been established with the mandate of promoting investment and economic development in the territory.
Telecommunications in the Cayman Islands: Communications in the Cayman Islands
Foreign relations of the Cayman Islands: The foreign relations of the Cayman Islands are largely managed from the United Kingdom, as the islands remain an overseas territory of the UK. However, the Government of the Cayman Islands often resolves important issues with foreign governments alone, without intervention from Britain. Although in its early days, the Cayman Islands' most important relationships were with Britain and Jamaica, in recent years, this has shifted, and they now rely more so on the United States.
Geography of the Cayman Islands: The Cayman Islands are a British dependency and island nation. It is a three-island archipelago in the Caribbean Sea, consisting of Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, and Little Cayman. The Cayman Islands are 130 nautical miles (241 km; 150 mi) south of Cuba and 145 nautical miles (269 km; 167 mi) northwest of Jamaica, and are between Cuba and Central America. Its geographic coordinates are 1930 north, 8030 west.
History of the Central African Republic: The history of the Central African Republic.
Central African Republic: The Central African Republic (CAR), is a landlocked country in Central Africa. It borders Chad in the north, Sudan in the east, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of the Congo in the south, and Cameroon in the west. The CAR covers a land area of almost 623,000 km, and has an estimated population of about 4.4 million as per 2008. Bangui is the capital city.
Demographics of the Central African Republic: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Central African Republic, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. There are more than 80 ethnic groups in the Central African Republic (CAR), each with its own language.
Politics of the Central African Republic: Politics of the Central African Republic takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President is both head of state and head of government, with a separate executive Prime Minister. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The official government was deposed in 15 March 2003 by forces under the rebel leader Franis Boziz, who promised elections in 18 to 30 months.
Economy of the Central African Republic: The Central African Republic is classified as one of the world's least developed countries, with an estimated annual per capita income of $310 (2000). Sparsely populated and landlocked, the nation is overwhelmingly agrarian, with the vast bulk of the population engaged in subsistence farming and 55% of the country's GDP arising from agriculture.
Foreign relations of the Central African Republic: President Franis Boziz says that one of his priorities is to get the support of the international community. This has indeed been visible in his relations to donor countries and international organisations. At the same time it is difficult to have an open policy towards neighbouring countries when they are used as safe haven by rebels regularly attacking Central African Republic (C.A.R. ), or when one allied country is in war with another.
Military of the Central African Republic: The Forces arms centrafricaines (FACA) are the armed forces of the Central African Republic, established after independence in 1960. Today they are a rather weak institution, dependent on international support to hold back the enemies in the current civil war. Its disloyalty to the president came to the fore during the mutinies in 1996-1997, but ever since then it has faced internal problems.
Chad: Chad, officially known as the Republic of Chad, is a landlocked country in central Africa. It is bordered by Libya to the north, Sudan to the east, the Central African Republic to the south, Cameroon and Nigeria to the southwest, and Niger to the west. Due to its distance from the sea and its largely desert climate, the country is sometimes referred to as the "Dead Heart of Africa".
Politics of Chile: The politics of Chile takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Chile is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of the National Congress. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Economy of Chile: Chile has a dynamic market-oriented economy characterized by a high level of foreign trade. During the early 1990s, Chile's reputation as a role model for economic reform was strengthened when the democratic government of Patricio Aylwin - which took over from the military in 1990 - deepened the economic reform initiated by the military government.
History of Chile: The first European to sight Chilean territory was Ferdinand Magellan, who crossed the Strait of Magellan on November 1, 1520. However, the title of discoverer of Chile is usually assigned to Diego de Almagro. Almagro was Francisco Pizarro's partner, and he received the Southern area. (Nueva Toledo). He organized an expedition that brought him to central Chile in 1537, but he found little of value to compare with the gold and silver of the Incas in Peru.
Telecommunications in Chile: The technical regulator of communications in Chile is the Ministry of Transportation and Telecommunications, through the Undersecretariat of Telecommunications (Subtel).
Transport in Chile: Transport in Chile is mostly by road. The south of the country is not connected to central Chile by road, except through Argentina, and water transport also plays a part there. The railways were historically important in Chile, but now play a relatively small part in the country's transport system. Because of the country's geography and long distances between major cities, aviation is also important.
Military of Chile: Chile's armed forces are subject to civilian control exercised by the president through the Minister of Defense. Military service of 12 to 24 months is mandatory for all male citizens upon turning 18. This conscription service can be postponed for educational or religious reasons. In recent years and after several major reequipment programs, the Chilean Armed Forces have become one of the most technologically advanced and professional of the Americas.
National Anthem of Chile: The National Anthem of Chile is also known as Canci Nacional (National Song). It has a history of two lyrics and two melodies that made up three different versions. The current version was composed by Ram Carnicer, with words by Eusebio Lillo, and has six parts plus the chorus.
Foreign relations of Chile: Since its return to democracy in 1990, Chile has been an active participant in the international political arena. Chile assumed a two-year non-permanent position on the UN Security Council in January 2003 and is an active member of the UN family of agencies, serving as a member of the Commission on Human Rights and participating in UN peacekeeping activities.
Chile: Chile, officially the Republic of Chile, is a country in South America occupying a long, narrow coastal strip between the Andes mountains to the east and the Pacific Ocean to the west. It borders Peru to the north, Bolivia to the northeast, Argentina to the east, and the Drake Passage in the far south. With Ecuador, it is one of two countries in South America which do not border Brazil. The Pacific coastline of Chile is 6,435 kilometres.
Demographics of the Cocos Keeling Islands: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Cocos Keeling Islands: The Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands, also called Cocos Islands and Keeling Islands, is a territory of Australia. There are two atolls and twenty-seven coral islands in the group. The islands are located in the Indian Ocean, about halfway between Australia and Sri Lanka.
Transport in the Cocos Keeling Islands: The Cocos (Keeling) Islands has fifteen kilometres of highway. The airport has paved runways of length exceeding 1,525 metres. There are no major seaports in the islands, but there is lagoon anchorage.
Christmas Island: The Territory of Christmas Island is a territory of Australia in the Indian Ocean. It is located 2,600 kilometres (1,600 mi) northwest of the Western Australian city of Perth, 500 km (310 mi) south of the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, and 975 km (606 mi) ENE of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. It has a population of 1,403 residents who live in a number of "settlement areas" on the northern tip of the island: Flying Fish Cove (also known as Kampong), Silver City, Poon Saan, and Drumsite.
Clipperton Island: Clipperton Island is a nine-square-kilometre (approx. 3.5 square mile) coral atoll in the Eastern Pacific Ocean, southwest of Mexico and west of Central America, at 1018N 10913W; / ;10.3 109.217; / 10.3; -109.217; (Clipperton Island)Coordinates: 1018N 10913W; / ;10.3 109.217; / 10.3; -109.217; (Clipperton Island). It has no permanent inhabitants.
History of Costa Rica: In Pre-Columbian times the Native Americans in what is now Costa Rica were part of a cultural complex known as the "Intermediate Area," between the Mesoamerican and Andean cultural regions. For nearly three centuries, Spain & Dalia Founded it administered the region as part of the Captaincy General of Guatemala under a military governor. The Spanish optimistically called the country "Rich Coast".
Coral Sea Islands: The Coral Sea Islands Territory includes a group of small and mostly uninhabited tropical islands and reefs in the Coral Sea, northeast of Queensland, Australia. The only inhabited island is Willis Island. The territory covers 780,000 km, extending east and south from the outer edge of the Great Barrier Reef, and including Heralds Beacon Island, Osprey Reef, the Willis Group, and fifteen other reef/island groups.
Conspiracy theory: Conspiracy theory is a term that originally was a neutral descriptor for any claim of civil, criminal or political conspiracy. However, it has become largely pejorative and used almost exclusively to refer to any fringe theory which explains a historical or current event as the result of a secret plot by conspirators.
Geography of Costa Rica: Costa Rica is located on the Central American Isthmus, surrounding the point 10 north of the Equator and 84 west of the Prime Meridian. It borders both the Caribbean Sea (to the east) and the North Pacific Ocean (to the west), with a total of 1,228 km of coastline (212 km on the Caribbean coast and 1,016 km on the Pacific). Costa Rica shares a border with Nicaragua to the north (309 km long border) and with Panama to the south (330 km long border).
Costa Rica: Costa Rica, officially the Republic of Costa Rica is a country in Central America, bordered by Nicaragua to the north, Panama to the east and south, the Pacific Ocean to the west and south and the Caribbean Sea to the east. Costa Rica, which translates literally as "Rich Coast", constitutionally abolished its army permanently in 1949. It is the only Latin American country included in the list of the worlds 22 older democracies.
Demographics of Costa Rica: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Costa Rica, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. According to the UN, in 2009 Costa Rica has an estimated population of 4,579,000 people. Together, whites and mestizos make up a 94% of the population, 3% are black people, 1% Amerindians, 1% Chinese, and 1% other.
Economy of Costa Rica: The economy of Costa Rica heavily depends on tourism, agriculture, and electronics exports. Poverty has been reduced over the past 15 years, and a social safety net put into place.
Politics of Costa Rica: The politics of Costa Rica take place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, with a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the president and his cabinet, and the President of Costa Rica is both the head of state and head of government. Legislative power is vested in the Legislative Assembly. The president and 57 Legislative Assembly deputies are elected for 4-year terms. The Judiciary operates independent of the executive and the legislature.
Military of Costa Rica: On December 1, 1948, President Jos Figueres Ferrer of Costa Rica abolished the military of Costa Rica after victory in the civil war in that year. In a ceremony in the Cuartel Bellavista, Figueres broke a wall with a mallet symbolizing the end of Costa Rica's military spirit. In 1949, the abolition of the military was introduced in Article 12 of the Costa Rican Constitution.
Transportation in Costa Rica: There are many modes of Transportation in Costa Rica.
Foreign relations of Costa Rica: Costa Rica is an active member of the international community and, in 1983, claimed it was for neutrality. Due to certain powerful constituencies favoring its methods, it has a weight in world affairs far beyond its size. The country lobbied aggressively for the establishment of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and became the first nation to recognize the jurisdiction of the Inter-American Human Rights Court, based in San Jose.
Demographics of C te d'Ivoire: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Ce d'Ivoire, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Computational linguistics: Computational linguistics is an interdisciplinary field dealing with the statistical and/or rule-based modeling of natural language from a computational perspective. This modeling is not limited to any particular field of linguistics. Traditionally, computational linguistics was usually performed by computer scientists who had specialized in the application of computers to the processing of a natural language.
Politics of C te d'Ivoire: The Politics of Cote d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast) takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Ce d'Ivoire is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The official capital since 1983 is Yamoussoukro; however, Abidjan remains the administrative center.
National Armed Forces of C te d'Ivoire: The National Armed Forces of Ce d'Ivoire is the armed forces of Ce d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast). It is headed by the chief of staff and commander of the FANCI.
Geography of C te d'Ivoire: Ce d'Ivoire (the Ivory Coast) is a sub-Saharan nation in southern West Africa located at 8 00, 5 00.
Transport in C te d'Ivoire: As of 2004, the nations railway system consisted of a state-controlled 660 km section of a 1,146 km narrow gauge railroad that ran north from Abidjan through Bouak and Ferksougou to Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. total: 660 km narrow gauge: 660 km, 1,000 mm (3 ft 3+8 in) gauge; 25 km double track (1995 est.)
History of Croatia: The history of Croatia was divided into a series of separate historical articles navigable through the list to the right. For information on today's Croatia, see Croatia.
Demographics of Croatia: The demographic features of the population of Croatia includes population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Croatia is inhabited mostly by Croats, while minority groups include Serbs, Bosniaks, Hungarians, Italians, Slovenes, Germans, Czechs, Romani people and others. Catholicism is the predominant religion, while there's also Eastern Orthodoxy and Islam.
Geography of Croatia: Croatia is located in Central and Southeastern Europe (aka the western Balkans) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia. It borders the Adriatic Sea along its 5,835 km coastline. Its size is comparable to that of West Virginia or Nova Scotia. Croatia has a 932 km border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, a 670 km border with Slovenia, a 329 km border with Hungary, a 241 km border with Serbia (its Autonomous Province of Vojvodina entirely) and a 25 km border with Montenegro.
Croatia: Croatia, officially the Republic of Croatia, is a country in central and southeastern Europe, at the crossroads of the Pannonian Plain, the Balkans, and the Adriatic Sea. Its capital (and largest city) is Zagreb. Croatia borders Slovenia and Hungary to the north, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the southeast, and Serbia and Montenegro to the east. The Croats arrived in the early seventh century in what is Croatia today. They organized the state into two dukedoms.
Politics of Croatia: The politics of Croatia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Croatia is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in the Croatian Parliament (Sabor). The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. It adopted its current constitution on December 22, 1990, and declared independence from Yugoslavia on June 25, 1991.
Transport in Croatia: Transport in Croatia relies on several main modes, including transport by road, rail, water and air. Road transport incorporates a comprehensive network of state, county and local routes augmented by a network of highways for long-distance travelling. Water transport can be divided into sea, based on the ports of Rijeka, Ploe, Split and Zadar, and river transport, based on Sava, Danube and, to a lesser extent, Drava. Croatia has 68 airports, five of which are international.
Economy of Croatia: The Economy of Croatia is a service-based economy, with the service sector accounting for 67% of the total GDP. The preliminary GDP data for 2008 put Croatian GDP at 370.5 billion Croatian Kuna, or just over USD 15,700 per capita, putting Croatia ahead of the EU member states Bulgaria, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. The estimated Gross Domestic Product per capita in purchasing power parity in 2008 was around USD 18,740 or 63% of the EU average for the same year.
Military of Croatia: Croatian military is officially called Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and it consists of these branches: * Croatian Army (Hrvatska kopnena vojska) Croatian Navy (Hrvatska ratna mornarica) Croatian Air Force and Defense (Hrvatsko ratno zrakoplovstvo i protuzrana obrana) Total active duty members of the armed forces (professional army) number is 20000. Reserves number 12,000 of which 6,000 are on high alert.
Foreign relations of Croatia: The following page shows the foreign relations of Croatia from past history, current events, international disputes and foreign support.
Transportation in Cuba: Transportation in Cuba is composed of a system of railways, roads, buses, airports, waterways, ports and harbours:
Economy of Cuba: The economy of Cuba is a largely state-controlled, centrally planned economy overseen by the Cuban government, though there remains significant foreign investment and enterprise in Cuba. Most of the means of production are owned and run by the government and most of the labor force is employed by the state. In the year 2000, the public sector employment was 76% and the private sector at 23% compared to the 1981 ratio of 91% to 8%.
History of Cuba: Cuba, the largest of the Caribbean islands, was inhabited by Indigenous peoples when Christopher Columbus sighted the island during his first voyage of discovery on 27 October 1492, and claimed it for Spain. Cuba subsequently became a Spanish colony to be ruled by the Spanish governor in Havana, though in 1762 this city was briefly held by Britain before being returned in exchange for Florida.
Foreign relations of Cuba: Cuba's once-ambitious foreign policy has been scaled back and redirected as a result of economic hardship after the collapse of the Soviet bloc. Without massive Soviet subsidies and its primary trading partner Cuba was comparatively isolated in the 1990s, but has since entered bilateral co-operation with several South American countries, most notably Venezuela and Bolivia.
Demographics of Cyprus: The Demographics of Cyprus is about the demographic features of the population of Cyprus, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Cyprus: Politics of the Republic of Cyprus takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Cyprus is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the House of Representatives. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. Cyprus is a divided island.
Cyprus: Cyprus, officially the Republic of Cyprus, is a Eurasian island country in the Eastern Mediterranean, south of Turkey and west of Syria and Lebanon. It is the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea and one of its most popular tourist destinations. An advanced, high-income economy with a very high Human Development Index, the Republic of Cyprus was a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement until it joined the European Union on 1 May 2004.
Economy of Cyprus: Economic affairs in Cyprus are dominated by the division of the country into the southern area controlled by the Cyprus Government and the north area of Cyprus, illegally administered by turkish army. The Cypriot economy is a prosperous one. In 2008 it was classified by the IMF amongst the 32 advanced economies of the world. The IMF forecasts that Cyprus will be the only developed economy to enjoy continuous growth rates through the 2009 financial crisis.
Transport in Cyprus: Because Cyprus has no working railway system, various other methods of transportation are needed to ensure the proper delivery of any cargo, be it human or freight. Since the last railway was dismantled in 1952, the only remaining modes of transport are by motorways, by sea, and by air.
Foreign relations of Cyprus: Cyprus is a member of the United Nations along with most of its agencies as well as the Commonwealth of Nations, World Bank, International Monetary Fund and Council of Europe. In addition, the country has signed the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency Agreement (MIGA).
Creutzfeldt Jakob disease: Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease or CJD (sometimes incorrectly referred to as mad cow disease) is a degenerative neurological disorder that is incurable and invariably fatal. It is the most common among the types of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy found in humans.
C. Northcote Parkinson: Cyril Northcote Parkinson (30 July 1909 - 9 March 1993) was a British naval historian and author of some sixty books, the most famous of which was his bestseller Parkinson's Law, which led him to be also considered as an important scholar within the field of public administration.
Canal: Canals are man-made channels for water. There are two types of canal: Aqueduct (or water conveyance) canals that are used for the conveyance and delivery of fresh water, for human consumption, agriculture, etc. Waterway canals that are navigable transportation canals used for carrying ships and boats loaded with goods and people, often connected to existing lakes, rivers, or oceans. Included here are inter-ocean canals such as the Suez Canal and the Panama Canal.
Geography of Cyprus: The geography of Cyprus entails the physical and human geography of Cyprus, an island country situated in the Eastern Basin of the Mediterranean Sea. The third largest island in the Mediterranean and the world's 81st largest, it is located south of the Anatolian peninsula (Asia Minor), or modern-day Turkey, of the Asian mainland.
Cognitive science: Cognitive science is the interdisciplinary study of how information is represented and transformed in the brain. It consists of multiple research disciplines, including psychology, artificial intelligence, philosophy, neuroscience, learning sciences, linguistics, anthropology, sociology, and education. It spans many levels of analysis, from low-level learning and decision mechanisms to high-level logic and planning; from neural circuitry to modular brain organization.
Copula linguistics: In linguistics, a copula, also called a "passive verb" or "linking verb", is a word used to link the subject of a sentence with a predicate. The word copula derives from the Latin noun for a link or tie that connects two different things. A copula is sometimes a verb or a verb-like part of speech. A verb that is a copula is sometimes called a copulative or copular verb. In English primary education grammar courses, a copula is often called a linking verb.
List of centuries: The pages listed below contain information about trends and events in particular centuries and millennia.
Chemist: A chemist is a scientist trained in the science of chemistry. Chemists study the composition of matter and its properties such as density, acidity, size and shape. Chemists carefully describe the properties they study in terms of quantities, with detail on the level of molecules and their component atoms. Chemists carefully measure substance proportions, reaction rates, and other chemical properties.
Cypress Hill: Cypress Hill is an American hip hop group from South Gate, California. Originally called DVX, the name was changed after Mellow Man Ace left in 1988. Cypress Hill was the first Latino group to have platinum and multi-platinum albums, selling over 18 million albums worldwide. They are one of the most well known groups in West Coast rap and are acclaimed for their first two classic albums.
Christopher Columbus: Christopher Columbus (c. 1451 - 20 May 1506) was a navigator, colonizer, and explorer whose voyages across the Atlantic Ocean led to general European awareness of the American continents in the Western Hemisphere. With his four voyages of exploration and several attempts at establishing a settlement on the island of Hispaniola, all funded by Isabella I of Castile, he initiated the process of Spanish colonization which foreshadowed general European colonization of the "New World".
Cyrillic alphabet: The Cyrillic script writing system is an alphabet developed in the 9th century in Bulgaria, and used in the Slavic national languages of Belarusian, Bulgarian, Russian, Rusyn, Bosnian, Serbian, Macedonian, and Ukrainian, and in the non-Slavic languages of Moldovan, Kazakh, Uzbek, Kyrgyz, Tajik, Tuvan, and Mongolian. It also was used in (past) languages of Eastern Europe, the Caucasus, and Siberia.
Consonant: In articulatory phonetics, a consonant is a speech sound that is articulated with complete or partial closure of the vocal tract. Examples are [p], pronounced with the lips; [t], pronounced with the front of the tongue; [k], pronounced with the back of the tongue; [h], pronounced in the throat; [f] and [s], pronounced by forcing air through a narrow channel; and [m] and [n], which have air flowing through the nose. Contrasting with consonants are vowels.
Costume jewelry: Costume jewelry (also called fashion jewelry, junk jewelry, fake jewelry, or fallalery) is the first jewelry (jewellery) manufactured as ornamentation for the masses to complement a particular fashionable garment or "costume". Costume jewelry came into being in the 1930s as a cheap, disposable accessory meant to be worn with a specific outfit. It was intended to be fashionable for a short period of time, outdate itself, and then be repurchased to fit with a new outfit or new fashion style.
Cretaceous: The Cretaceous, Latin for "chalky", usually abbreviated K for its German translation Kreide (chalk), is a geologic period and system from circa 145.5 &plusmn; 4 to 65.5 &plusmn; 0.3 million years ago (Ma). In the geologic timescale, the Cretaceous follows on the Jurassic Period and is followed by the Paleogene Period of the Cenozoic Era. It is the youngest period of the Mesozoic Era, and at 80 million years long, the longest period of the Phanerozoic Eon.
Channel Islands: The Channel Islands are an archipelago in the English Channel, off the French coast of Normandy. They include two separate bailiwicks: the Bailiwick of Guernsey and the Bailiwick of Jersey. According to the official website of the British Monarchy, they are British Crown dependencies, but neither is part of the United Kingdom; rather they are considered the remnants of the Duchy of Normandy. They have a total population of about 158,000. Their respective capitals, St. Peter Port and St.
Comedy film: Comedy film is a genre of film in which the main emphasis is on humour. Also, films in this style typically have a happy ending (the black comedy being an exception). One of the oldest genres in film, some of the very first silent movies were comedies. Comedy, unlike other film genres, puts much more focus on individual stars, with many former stand-up comic transitioning to the film industry due to their popularity.
Constantinople: Constantinople was the imperial capital of the Roman Empire, the Byzantine/Eastern Roman Empire, the Latin Empire and the Ottoman Empire. Throughout most of the Middle Ages, Constantinople was Europe's largest and wealthiest city. It had many names; see Names of Istanbul for fuller discussion.
Columbus: Columbus is a Latinized version of the Italian "Colombo". The name "Columbus" may refer to:
Cult film: A cult film (also known as a cult movie/picture or a cult classic) is a film that has acquired a highly devoted but specific group of fans. Often, cult movies have failed to achieve fame outside of the small fanbases; however, there have been exceptions that have managed to gain fame among mainstream audiences.
Constitutional monarchy: A constitutional monarchy is a form of government in which a monarch acts as head of state within the perimeters of a written (i.e. , codified), unwritten (i.e. , uncodified) or blended constitution. It differs from absolute monarchy in that an absolute monarch serves as the sole source of political power in the state and is not legally bound by any constitution.
Computer networking: Computer networking is the engineering discipline concerned with the communication between computer systems or devices. A computer network is any set of computers or devices connected to each other with the ability to exchange data.
Combustion: Combustion or burning is the sequence of exothermic chemical reactions between a fuel and an oxidant accompanied by the production of heat and conversion of chemical species. The release of heat can result in the production of light in the form of either glowing or a flame. Fuels of interest often include organic compounds in the gas, liquid or solid phase.
Clarke's three laws: Arthur C. Clarke formulated the following three "laws" of prediction: When a distinguished but elderly scientist states that something is possible, he is almost certainly right. When he states that something is impossible, he is very probably wrong. The only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a little way past them into the impossible. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
Caspar David Friedrich: Caspar David Friedrich (September 5, 1774 - May 7, 1840) was a 19th-century German Romantic landscape painter, generally considered the most important of the movement. He is best known for his mid-period allegorical landscapes which typically feature contemplative figures silhouetted against night skies, morning mists, barren trees or Gothic ruins.
Courtney Love: Courtney Michelle Love (born Courtney Michelle Harrison on July 9, 1964) is an American rock musician and actress. Love is known as lead singer, guitarist and lyricist for the alternative rock band Hole and for her marriage to the late Nirvana singer/guitarist Kurt Cobain. Love has also garnered significant media attention over the years for her wild behavior and candid treatment of her grapples with drug addiction. Rolling Stone called Love the most controversial woman in the history of rock.
Cow disambiguation: Cow usually refers to adult female cattle.
Cannibalism: Cannibalism (from Canbalis, the Spanish name for the Carib people, a West Indies tribe well known for their practice of cannibalism), also called anthropophagy, is the act or practice of humans eating the flesh of other human beings. The term "cannibalism" is also used in zoology to mean the act of any species consuming members of its own type or kind.
Chemical element: A chemical element is a pure chemical substance consisting of one type of atom distinguished by its atomic number, which is the number of protons in its nucleus. The term is also used to refer to a pure chemical substance composed of atoms with the same number of protons. Common examples of elements are iron, copper, silver, gold, hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen. In total, 118 elements have been observed as of March 2010, of which 94 occur naturally on Earth.
Cornwall: Cornwall is a county of England in the United Kingdom, forming the tip of the south-western peninsula of Great Britain. It is bordered to the north and west by the Atlantic Ocean, to the south by the English Channel, and to the east by the county of Devon, over the River Tamar. Taken with the Isles of Scilly Cornwall has a population of 534,300, and covers an area of 3,563 km (1,376 sq mi). The administrative centre and only city is Truro.
Centime: Centime (from Latin centesimus) is French for "cent", and is used in English as the name of the fraction currency in several Francophone countries. In France the usage of centime goes back to the introduction of the decimal monetary system under Napoleon. This system aimed at replacing non-decimal fractions of older coins. A five-centime coin was known as a sou, i.e. a solidus or shilling. Conversely in Quebec, one hundredth of a Canadian dollar is called a sou (penny).
Calendar year: Generally speaking, a calendar year begins on the New Year's Day of the given calendar system and ends on the day before the following New Year's Day. By convention, a calendar year consists of a natural number of days. To reconcile the calendar year with an astronomical cycle (which could not possibly be reckoned in a whole number of days), certain years contain extra days.
CFA franc: The CFA franc is a currency used in fourteen countries: twelve formerly French-ruled African countries, as well as in Guinea-Bissau (a former Portuguese colony) and in Equatorial Guinea (a former Spanish colony). The ISO currency codes are XAF for the Central African CFA franc and XOF for the West African CFA franc. It has a fixed exchange rate to the euro: 100 CFA francs = 1 French (nouveau) franc = 0.152449 euro; or 1 euro = 655.957 CFA francs.
Consciousness: Consciousness is subjective experience or awareness or wakefulness or the executive control system of the mind. It is an umbrella term that may refer to a variety of mental phenomena. Although humans realize what everyday experiences are, consciousness refuses to be defined, philosophers note (e.g. John Searle in The Oxford Companion to Philosophy): Consciousness in medicine (e.g.
Central bank: A central bank, reserve bank, or monetary authority is a banking institution granted the exclusive privilege to lend a government its currency. Like a normal commercial bank, a central bank charges interest on the loans made to borrowers, primarily the government of whichever country the bank exists for, and to other commercial banks, typically as a 'lender of last resort'.
Currency: In economics, the term currency can refer either to a particular currency, for example the US dollar, or to the coins and banknotes of a particular currency, which comprise the physical aspects of a nation's money supply. The other part of a nation's money supply consists of money deposited in banks (sometimes called deposit money), ownership of which can be transferred by means of cheques or other forms of money transfer such as credit and debit cards.
Chlorine: Chlorine (from the Greek word '', is the chemical element with atomic number 17 and symbol Cl. It is a halogen, found in the periodic table in group 17 . As the chloride ion, which is part of common salt and other compounds, it is abundant in nature and necessary to most forms of life, including humans. In its elemental form under standard conditions, chlorine is a powerful oxidant and is used in bleaching and disinfectants, as well as an essential reagent in the chemical industry.
Calcium: Calcium is the chemical element with the symbol Ca and atomic number 20. It has an atomic mass of 40.078 amu. Calcium is a soft gray alkaline earth metal, and is the fifth most abundant element by mass in the Earth's crust. Calcium is also the fifth most abundant dissolved ion in seawater by both molarity and mass, after sodium, chloride, magnesium, and sulfate.
Cymbal: Cymbals are a common percussion instrument. Cymbals consist of thin, normally round plates of various alloys; see cymbal making for a discussion of their manufacture. The greater majority of cymbals are of indefinite pitch, although small disc-shaped cymbals based on ancient designs sound a definite note. Cymbals are used in many ensembles ranging from the orchestra, percussion ensembles, jazz bands, heavy metal bands, and marching groups.
Chromium: Chromium is a chemical element which has the symbol Cr and atomic number 24, first element in Group 6. It is a steely-gray, lustrous, hard metal that takes a high polish and has a high melting point. It is also odorless, tasteless, and malleable. The name of the element is derived from the Greek word "chrma" (), meaning color, because many of its compounds are intensely colored. It was discovered by Louis Nicolas Vauquelin in the mineral crocoite in 1797.
Curium: Curium is a synthetic chemical element with the symbol Cm and atomic number 96. A radioactive metallic transuranic element of the actinide series, curium is produced by bombarding plutonium with alpha particles and was named after Marie Curie and her husband Pierre.
Cadmium: Cadmium is a chemical element with the symbol Cd and atomic number 48. The soft, bluish-white metal is chemically similar to the two other metals in group 12, zinc and mercury. Similar to zinc it prefers oxidation state +2 in most of its compounds and similar to mercury it shows a low melting point compared to transition metals.
Californium: Californium is a metallic chemical element with the symbol Cf and atomic number 98. A radioactive transuranic element, californium is used in starting nuclear reactors, optimizing coal-fired power plants and cement production facilities (via online analyzers), medical treatment of cancer, and oil exploration via down hole well logging. It was first produced by bombarding curium with alpha particles.
Corporate title: Publicly and privately held for-profit corporations confer corporate titles or business titles on company officials as a means of identifying their function in the organization. In addition, many non-profit organizations, educational institutions, partnerships, and sole proprietorships also confer corporate titles. The following is a list of common titles for corporate executives.
Computer expo: A computer expo is a trade fair or exposition for computers and electronics. Expos usually include company or organization booths where products and technologies are demonstrated; talks and lectures; and general mixing of people with common interests. CeBIT COMDEX Computex Taipei Computer World Expo GITEX HostingCon Interop LinuxTag Macworld Conference & Expo Southwest Computer Conference & Expo SMAU Unified Communications Expo SIMO
Cambridge Massachusetts: Cambridge is a city in Middlesex County, Massachusetts, United States, in the Greater Boston area. It was named in honor of the University of Cambridge in England, a nexus of the Puritan theology embraced by the town's founders. Notably, Cambridge is home to two internationally prominent universities, Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. As of 2008 the city population was 105,594.
Colin Dexter: Norman Colin Dexter, OBE, (born 29 September 1930 in Stamford, Lincolnshire) is an English crime writer, known for his Inspector Morse novels.
Cambridge disambiguation: Cambridge is the county town of Cambridgeshire.
Christian Social Union of Bavaria: The Christian Social Union in Bavaria is a Christian democratic and conservative political party in Germany. It was founded as a continuation of the Weimar-era Catholic Bavarian People's Party. It operates only in the state of Bavaria, while its sister party, the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), operates in the other 15 states of Germany. The difference between the CDU and the CSU is mainly that the CSU is more conservative in domestic issues but more progressive in social issues.
Codex: A codex (Latin for block of wood, book; plural codices) is a book in the format used for modern books, with separate pages normally bound together and given a cover. Developed by the Romans from wooden writing tablets, its gradual replacement of the scroll, the dominant form of book in the ancient world, has been termed the most important advance in the history of the book prior to the invention of printing.
Chalmers University of Technology: Chalmers University of Technology, is a university in Gothenburg, Sweden, that focuses on research and education in technology, natural science and architecture. The university, together with KTH, is regarded as Sweden's most distinguished technical universities.
Calf: Calves are the young of domestic cattle. Calves are reared to become adult cattle, or are slaughtered for their meat, called veal.
College: College is a term most often used today in the United States to denote a degree-awarding tertiary educational institution and in other English-speaking countries to refer to an academically oriented secondary school. More broadly, it can be the name of any group of colleagues, for example, an electoral college, a College of Arms or the College of Cardinals.
Claude Shannon: Claude Elwood Shannon (April 30, 1916 - February 24, 2001), an American electronic engineer and mathematician, is known as "the father of information theory". Shannon is famous for having founded information theory with one landmark paper published in 1948.
Community: In biological terms, a community is a group of interacting organisms (or different species) sharing an environment. In human communities, intent, belief, resources, preferences, needs, risks, and a number of other conditions may be present and common, affecting the identity of the participants and their degree of cohesiveness. In sociology, the concept of community has led to significant debate, and sociologists are yet to reach agreement on a definition of the term.
Community college: A community college is a type of educational institution. The term can have different meanings in different countries.
Charles Babbage: Charles Babbage, FRS (26 December 1791 - 18 October 1871) was an English mathematician, philosopher, inventor and mechanical engineer who originated the concept of a programmable computer. Parts of his uncompleted mechanisms are on display in the London Science Museum. In 1991, a perfectly functioning difference engine was constructed from Babbage's original plans.
Cross-dressing: Cross-dressing is the wearing of clothing and other accoutrement commonly associated with the other gender within a particular society. Cross-dressing has been used for disguise, performance art and as a literary trope in modern times and throughout history.
Civil Rights Memorial: The Civil Rights Memorial in Montgomery, Alabama is a memorial to 40 people who died in the struggle for equal and integrated treatment of people of European and African descent. The memorial is sponsored by the Southern Poverty Law Center. There is a guard standing across the street from the memorial to prevent vandalism, yet not so close to the monument as to resemble a prison. The names included belong to those who died between 1954 and 1968. Those dates were chosen because in 1954 the U.S.
Cyberpunk: Cyberpunk is a science fiction genre noted for its focus on "high tech and low life". The name is a portmanteau of cybernetics and punk and was originally coined by Bruce Bethke as the title of his short story "Cyberpunk", published in 1983. It features advanced science, such as information technology and cybernetics, coupled with a degree of breakdown or radical change in the social order. Cyberpunk works are well situated within postmodern literature.
Continuum hypothesis: In mathematics, the continuum hypothesis (abbreviated CH) is a hypothesis, advanced by Georg Cantor in 1877, about the possible sizes of infinite sets. It states: There is no set whose cardinality is strictly between that of the integers and that of the real numbers. Establishing the truth or falsehood of the continuum hypothesis is the first of Hilbert's twenty-three problems presented in the year 1900.
Comic strip: A comic strip is a sequence of cartoons that tells a story, often humorous, though action-adventure. science fiction and soap opera-like dramas are also prevalent. They are written and drawn by a comics artist or cartoonist, and many are published on a recurring basis (usually daily or weekly) in newspapers and on the Internet. In the UK and the rest of Europe comic strips are also serialized in comic book magazines, with a strip's story sometimes continuing over three pages or more.
Nepeta: Nepeta is a genus of about 250 species of flowering plants in the family Lamiaceae. The members of this group are known as catnip or catmint because of their effect on cats- nepeta pleasantly stimulates cats' pheromonic receptors, typically resulting in temporary euphoria. Some followers of herbal medicine claim that catnip tends to have a sedative effect on humans. There is, however, no scientific evidence to validate this claim. The genus is native to Europe, Asia, and Africa.
 evik Bir: vik Bir was a member of the Turkish General Staff in the 1990s. He took a major part in several important international missions in the Middle East and North Africa. He was born in Buca, zmir, in 1939 and is married with one child. He graduated from the Turkish Military Academy as an engineer officer in 1958, from the Army Staff College in 1970 and from the Armed Forces College in 1971. He graduated from NATO Defense College, Rome, Italy in 1973.
Cumin: Cumin is a flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, native from the east Mediterranean to East India.
Cornish Nationalist Party: The Cornish Nationalist Party (CNP), Cornish: Party Kenethlegek Kernow, is an unregistered political party in the United Kingdom, led by Dr James Whetter and campaigning for self-government for Cornwall. It was formed by people who left Mebyon Kernow on 28 May 1975.. The party ceased to exist in 2005, although it claimed to have reformed in April 2009 following a conference in Bodmin.. However, it did not contest the local or European elections in 2009.
Cryptanalysis: Cryptanalysis (from the Greek krypt, "hidden", and analein, "to loosen" or "to untie") is the study of methods for obtaining the meaning of encrypted information, without access to the secret information which is normally required to do so. Typically, this involves knowing how the system works and finding a secret key. In non-technical language, this is the practice of codebreaking or cracking the code, although these phrases also have a specialised technical meaning.
Collectivism: Collectivism is a term used to describe any moral, political, or social outlook, that emphasizes the interdependence of every human in some collective group and the priority of group goals over individual goals. Collectivists focus on community and society, and seek to give priority to group rights over individual rights. The philosophical underpinnings of collectivism are for some related to holism or organicism, the view that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts/pieces.
Chicano: The terms Chicano and Chicana (also spelled Xicana) were originally used by Americans in reference to U.S. citizens of Mexican descent. The term began to be widely used during the Chicano Movement, mainly amongst Mexican Americans, especially in the movement's peak in the late 1960s and early 1970s. The self-identification Chicano is still in popular usage today by Mexican-American youth.
Chuck D: Carlton Douglas Ridenhour (born August 1, 1960), better known by his stage name, Chuck D, is an American rapper, author, and producer. He helped create politically and socially conscious rap music in the late 1980s as the leader of the rap group Public Enemy.
Channel Tunnel: The Channel Tunnel, known colloquially as the Chunnel, is a 50.5-kilometre (31.4 mi) undersea rail tunnel linking Folkestone, Kent near Dover in the United Kingdom with Coquelles, Pas-de-Calais near Calais in northern France beneath the English Channel at the Strait of Dover. At its lowest point it is 75 metres (246 ft) deep.
Cutaway filmmaking: In film, a cutaway is the interruption of a continuously filmed action by inserting a view of something else. It is usually, although not always, followed by a cutback to the first shot.
Call of Cthulhu role-playing game: Call of Cthulhu is a horror fiction role-playing game based on H. P. Lovecraft's story of the same name and the associated Cthulhu Mythos. The game, often abbreviated as CoC, is published by Chaosium.
Coma: In medicine, a coma (from the Greek koma, meaning deep sleep) is a profound state of unconsciousness. A person in a coma cannot be awakened, fails to respond normally to pain, light or sound, does not have sleep-wake cycles, and does not take voluntary actions. A person in a state of coma can be described as comatose.
Constellations journal: Constellations: An International Journal of Critical and Democratic Theory is a quarterly peer-reviewed journal of critical and democratic theory, and successor of Praxis International. It is edited by Nadia Urbinati and Andrew Arato and published at the New School for Social Research.
Canary Islands: The Canary Islands are a Spanish archipelago which, in turn, forms one of the Spanish Autonomous Communities and an Outermost Region of the European Union. The archipelago is located just off the northwest coast of mainland Africa, 100 km west of the disputed border between Morocco and the Western Sahara. The sea currents which depart from Canary's coasts used to lead ships away to America.
Crane shot: In motion picture terminology, a crane shot is a shot taken by a camera on a crane. The most obvious uses are to view the actors from above or to move up and away from them, a common way of ending a movie. Some filmmakers like to have the camera on a boom arm just to make it easier to move around between ordinary set-ups. Most cranes accommodate both the camera and an operator, but some can be operated by remote control.
Cthulhu Mythos: The Cthulhu Mythos, also known as the Lovecraft Mythos, is a shared universe created in the 1920s by American horror writer H. P. Lovecraft. The term was coined by Lovecraft's associate August Derleth, and named after Cthulhu, a powerful fictional entity in Lovecraft's stories.
Cape Breton Island: Cape Breton Island is an island on the Atlantic coast of North America. It likely corresponds to the French word "Breton", referring to Brittany. Cape Breton Island is part of the province of Nova Scotia, Canada. Although physically separated from the Nova Scotia peninsula by the Strait of Canso, it is artificially connected to mainland Nova Scotia by the Canso Causeway.
Chariots of Fire: Chariots of Fire is a 1981 British film. It tells the fact-based story of two athletes in the 1924 Olympics: Eric Liddell, a devout Scottish Christian who runs for the glory of God, and Harold Abrahams, an English Jew who runs to overcome prejudice. The film was written by Colin Welland and directed by Hugh Hudson. It was nominated for seven Academy Awards and won four, including Best Picture. It is ranked 19th in the British Film Institute's list of Top 100 British films.
Consequentialism: Consequentialism refers to those moral theories which hold that the consequences of a particular action form the basis for any valid moral judgment about that action (or create a structure for judgment, see rule consequentialism). Thus, from a consequentialist standpoint, a morally right action is one that produces a good outcome, or consequence. This view is often expressed as the aphorism "The ends justify the means".
Catherine Coleman: Catherine Grace "Cady" Coleman (born December 14, 1960, in Charleston, South Carolina) is a colonel in the United States Air Force and a NASA astronaut. She is a veteran of two Space Shuttle missions.
Conscription: Conscription (also known as the draft, call-up or national service) is a general term for involuntary enrollment in the service of a country. It is most often used in the specific sense of requiring citizens to serve in the armed forces. It is known by various names for example, the most recent conscription program in the United States was known colloquially as "the draft".
Cervix: The cervix (or neck of the uterus) is the lower, narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina. It is cylindrical or conical in shape and protrudes through the upper anterior vaginal wall. Approximately half its length is visible with appropriate medical equipment; the remainder lies above the vagina beyond view. It is occasionally called "cervix uteri". Cervix means neck in Latin.
Counting-out game: A counting-out game is a simple game intended to select a person to be "it", often for the purpose of playing another game. Some counting-out games are Rock, Paper, Scissors Odd or Even Coin flipping Drawing straws - player with the shortest straw loses. Bizz Buzz Many such games involve one person pointing at each participant in a circle of players while reciting a rhyme. A new person is pointed at as each word is said.
Castrato: A castrato is a man with a singing voice equivalent to that of a soprano, mezzo-soprano, or contralto voice produced either by castration of the singer before puberty or one who, because of an endocrinological condition, never reaches sexual maturity. Castration before puberty (or in its early stages) prevents a boy's larynx from being transformed by the normal physiological events of puberty.
Key size: In cryptography, key size or key length is the size measured in bits of the key used in a cryptographic algorithm (such as a cipher). An algorithm's key length is distinct from its cryptographic security, which is a logarithmic measure of the fastest known computational attack on the algorithm, also measured in bits. The security of an algorithm cannot exceed its key length (since any algorithm can be cracked by brute force), but it can be smaller.
Compiler: A compiler is a computer program (or set of programs) that transforms source code written in a computer language (the source language) into another computer language (the target language, often having a binary form known as object code). The most common reason for wanting to transform source code is to create an executable program. The name "compiler" is primarily used for programs that translate source code from a high-level programming language to a lower level language.
Complex analysis: Complex analysis, traditionally known as the theory of functions of a complex variable, is the branch of mathematics investigating functions of complex numbers. It is useful in many branches of mathematics, including number theory and applied mathematics; as well as in physics, including hydrodynamics, thermodynamics, and electrical engineering. Complex analysis is particularly concerned with the analytic functions of complex variables (or, more generally, meromorphic functions).
Cognitive behavioral therapy: Cognitive behavioral therapy (or cognitive behavioral therapies or CBT) is a psychotherapeutic approach that aims to solve problems concerning dysfunctional emotions, behaviors and cognitions through a goal-oriented, systematic procedure. The title is used in diverse ways to designate behavior therapy, cognitive therapy, and to refer to therapy based upon a combination of basic behavioral and cognitive research.
History of China: Chinese civilization originated in various regional centers both along the Yellow River and the Yangtze River valleys in the Neolithic era. The written history of China can be found as early as the Shang Dynasty (ca. 1700 BCE - ca. 1046 BCE). Oracle Bones with ancient Chinese writing from the Shang Dynasty have been carbon dated to as early as 1500 BCE. The origins of Chinese culture, literature and philosophy, developed during the Zhou Dynasty (1045 BCE to 256 BCE).
Chinese language: Chinese or the Sinitic language(s) ( Hy; Hu; Zhngguu; Zhngw) is a language family consisting of languages mutually intelligible to varying degrees. Originally the indigenous languages spoken by the Han Chinese in China, it forms one of the two branches of Sino-Tibetan family of languages. About one-fifth of the worlds population, or over one billion people, speak some form of Chinese as their native language.
Cantonese disambiguation: Cantonese generally refers to people or things associated with a region around the Chinese province of Guangdong or its capital, Guangzhou.
 atalh y k: tal Hk (also talhk and tal Hyk, or any of the three without diacritics; tal is Turkish for "fork", hk for "mound") was a very large Neolithic and Chalcolithic settlement in southern Anatolia, which existed from approximately 7500 BCE to 5700 BCE. It is the largest and best preserved Neolithic site found to date.
Civil engineering: Civil engineering is a professional engineering discipline that deals with the design, construction and maintenance of the physical and naturally built environment, including works such as bridges, roads, canals, dams and buildings. Civil engineering is the oldest engineering discipline after military engineering, and it was defined to distinguish non-military engineering from military engineering.
Catullus: For persons with a cognomen "Catulus", see Lutatius Gaius Valerius Catullus (ca. 84 BC - ca. 54 BC) was a Roman poet. His surviving works are still read widely, and continue to influence poetry and other forms of art.
Clement Attlee: Clement Richard Attlee, 1st Earl Attlee, KG, OM, CH, PC, FRS (3 January 1883 - 8 October 1967) was a British Labour politician who served as the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1945 to 1951, and as the Leader of the Labour Party from 1935 to 1955.
C. S. Forester: Cecil Scott Forester was the pen name of Cecil Louis Troughton Smith (27 August 1899 - 2 April 1966), an English novelist who rose to fame with tales of naval warfare. His most notable works were the 11-book Horatio Hornblower series, depicting a Royal Navy officer during the Napoleonic era, and The African Queen (1935; filmed in 1951 by John Huston). His novels A Ship of the Line and Flying Colours were jointly awarded the 1938 James Tait Black Memorial Prize for fiction.
List of country calling codes: This is a list of country calling codes defined by ITU-T recommendations E.123 and E.164, also called IDD or ISD codes. The telephone numbering plan for a telephone system includes an international dialing prefix, such as "00" or "011", which is added before the country calling code and is specific to the country from which the caller is dialling. Generally, as in the list below, the need for this prefix is indicated with a "+".
Christopher Marlowe: Christopher Marlowe (c. 26 February 1564 - 30 May 1593) was an English dramatist, poet and translator of the Elizabethan era. As the foremost Elizabethan tragedian, next to William Shakespeare, he is known for his blank verse, his overreaching protagonists, and his mysterious death. A warrant was issued for Marlowe's arrest on 18 May 1593.
Cricket disambiguation: Cricket is a bat-and-ball sport contested by two teams.
Caving: Cavingalso known as spelunking in the United States and occasionally potholing in the United Kingdomis the recreational sport of exploring wild cave systems. In contrast, speleology is the scientific study of caves and the cave environment.
Cave: A cave or cavern is a natural underground space large enough for a human to enter. Some people suggest that the term cave should only apply to cavities that have some part that does not receive daylight; however, in popular usage, the term includes smaller spaces like sea caves, rock shelters, and grottos. Speleology is the science of exploration and study of all aspects of caves and the environment which surrounds the caves.
Chinese numerals: Chinese numerals are characters for writing numbers in Chinese. Today, speakers of Chinese use three numeral systems: the ubiquitous system of Arabic numerals, along with two ancient Chinese numeral systems. One such system is the Suzhou numerals or huama system. It has gradually been supplanted by the Arabic system in writing numbers. It is the only surviving variation of the rod numeral system; this system has been popular only in Chinese markets, such as those in Hong Kong before the 1990s.
Computer program: A computer program (also a software program, or just a program) is a sequence of instructions written to perform a specified task for a computer. A computer requires programs to function, typically executing the program's instructions in a central processor. The program has an executable form that the computer can use directly to execute the instructions.
California Institute of Technology: The California Institute of Technology (commonly referred to as Caltech) is a private research university located in Pasadena, California, United States. The Institute maintains a strong emphasis on the natural sciences and engineering, and operates and manages NASA's neighboring Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
Crime: Crime is the breach of rules or laws for which some governing authority (via mechanisms such as legal systems) can ultimately prescribe a conviction. Individual human societies may each define crime and crimes differently. While every crime violates the law, not every violation of the law counts as a crime; for example: breaches of contract and of other civil law may rank as "offences" or as "infractions".
Carlo Goldoni: Carlo Osvaldo Goldoni (25 February 1707 - 6 February 1793) was a celebrated Venetian playwright and librettist, whom critics today rank among the European theatre's greatest authors. His works, along with those of the modernist Luigi Pirandello, include some of Italy's most famous and best-loved plays. Audiences have admired the plays of Goldoni for their ingenious mix of wit and honesty.
Cumulative distribution function: In probability theory and statistics, the cumulative distribution function (CDF), or just distribution function, completely describes the probability distribution of a real-valued random variable X. Cumulative distribution functions are also used to specify the distribution of multivariate random variables.
Continuous probability distribution: In probability theory, a probability distribution is called continuous if its cumulative distribution function is continuous. This is equivalent to saying that for random variables X with the distribution in question, Pr[X = a] = 0 for all real numbers a, i.e.: the probability that X attains the value a is zero, for any number a. If the distribution of X is continuous then X is called a continuous random variable.
Central tendency: In statistics, the term central tendency relates to the way in which quantitative data tend to cluster around some value. A measure of central tendency is any of a number of ways of specifying this "central value". In practical statistical analyses, the terms are often used before one has chosen even a preliminary form of analysis: thus an initial objective might be to "choose an appropriate measure of central tendency".
Cluster sampling: Cluster sampling is a sampling technique used when "natural" groupings are evident in a statistical population. It is often used in marketing research. In this technique, the total population is divided into these groups (or clusters) and a sample of the groups is selected. Then the required information is collected from the elements within each selected group. This may be done for every element in these groups or a subsample of elements may be selected within each of these groups.
Celebrity: A celebrity (often referred to as a celeb in popular culture) is a person who is famously recognized in a society or culture. Generally speaking, a celebrity is someone who gets media attention and most frequently has an extroverted personality. There are a wide range of ways by which people can become celebrities, from their profession, appearances in the mass media, beauty or even by complete accident or infamy.
Cretaceous Tertiary extinction event: The Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction event, which occurred approximately 65.5 million years ago, was a large-scale mass extinction of animal and plant species in a geologically short period of time. Widely known as the K-T extinction event, it is associated with a geological signature known as the K-T boundary, usually a thin band of sedimentation found in various parts of the world.
Charles Baudelaire: Charles Pierre Baudelaire (April 9, 1821 - August 31, 1867) was a nineteenth-century French poet, critic, and translator. A controversial figure in his lifetime, Baudelaire's name has become a byword for literary and artistic decadence. At the same time his works, in particular his book of poetry Les fleurs du mal (The Flowers of Evil), have been acknowledged as classics of French literature.
Casey at the Bat: "Casey at the Bat", subtitled "A Ballad of the Republic Sung in the Year 1888", is a baseball poem written in 1888 by Ernest Thayer. First published in the San Francisco Examiner on June 3, 1888, it was later popularized by DeWolf Hopper in many vaudeville performances.
Classical guitar: The classical guitar, also known as the "nylon string guitar" is a plucked string instrument from the family of instruments called chordophones. It typically has 6 nylon strings (the 3 bass-strings additionally being wound with a thin metal thread). The classical guitar is well known for its comprehensive fingerpicking technique, which enables the solo rendition of melody, multi-voiced harmony and polyphony (in much the same manner as the piano can).
C. S. Lewis: Clive Staples Lewis (29 November 1898 - 22 November 1963), commonly referred to as C. S. Lewis and known to his friends and family as Jack, was an Irish-born British novelist, academic, medievalist, literary critic, essayist, lay theologian and Christian apologist. He is also known for his fiction, especially The Screwtape Letters, The Chronicles of Narnia and The Space Trilogy. Lewis was a close friend of J. R. R.
Che Deng: Che Deng literally means diagonal nails in Cantonese. It is the name of a Chinese game that plays with the Chinese dominoes set. Che refers to the diagonal pattern of the "three" pip on the tile. Deng refers to the "one" pip on the tile.
Chinese dominoes: Chinese dominoes are used in several tile-based games, namely, Tien Gow, Pai Gow, Che Deng, Tiu U and Kap Tai Shap. In Cantonese they are called "Gwat Pai", which literally means "bone tiles", it is also the name of a northern Chinese game, where the rules are quite different from the southern Chinese game Tien Gow. References to Chinese domino tiles can be traced to writings from the Song Dynasty (AD 1120).
Cenozoic: The Cenozoic (also Cozoic or Cainozoic) Era (meaning "new life", is the most recent of the three classic geological eras and covers the period from 65.5 million years ago to the present. It is marked by the Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction event at the end of the Cretaceous that saw the demise of the last non-avian dinosaurs and the end of the Mesozoic Era. The Cenozoic era is ongoing.
Confucianism: Confucianism is a Chinese ethical and philosophical system developed from the teachings of the Chinese philosopher Confucius (Kg Fz, or K'ung-fu-tzu, lit. "Master Kong", 551-478 BC). It is a complex system of moral, social, political, philosophical, and quasi-religious thought that has had tremendous influence on the culture and history of East Asia. It might be considered a state religion of some East Asian countries, because of governmental promotion of Confucian philosophies.
Cryptozoology: Cryptozoology (from Greek, kryptos, "hidden" + zoology; literally, "study of hidden animals") refers to the search for animals which are considered to be legendary or otherwise nonexistent by mainstream biology.
Complex number: A complex number is a number comprising a real and imaginary part. It can be written in the form a + bi, where a and b are real numbers, and i is the standard imaginary unit with the property i = &minus;1. The complex numbers contain the ordinary real numbers, but extend them by adding in extra numbers and correspondingly expanding the understanding of addition and multiplication.
Confucius: Confucius, literally "Master Kong," (traditionally September 28, 551 BCE - 479 BCE) was a Chinese thinker and social philosopher, whose teachings and philosophy have deeply influenced Chinese, Korean, Japanese and Vietnamese thought and life. His philosophy emphasized personal and governmental morality, correctness of social relationships, justice and sincerity.
Chinese philosophy: Chinese philosophy is philosophy written in the Chinese tradition of thought. Chinese philosophy has a history of several thousand years; its origins are often traced back to the Yi Jing (the Book of Changes), an ancient compendium of divination, which uses a system of 64 hexagrams to guide action. This system is attributed to King Wen of Zhou (1099-1050 BCE) and the work reflects the characteristic concepts and approaches of Chinese philosophy.
Craig Charles: Craig Charles (born 11 July 1964) is an English actor, stand-up comedian, author, poet, radio and television presenter and former professional footballer, best-known for playing Dave Lister in the British cult-favourite sci-fi sitcom Red Dwarf. Since 2005, he has appeared as Lloyd Mullaney in the long-running soap opera Coronation Street.
County Mayo: County Mayo is one of the traditional counties of Ireland and is located within the province of Connacht. It was named after the village of Mayo, but the county seat is Castlebar. Mayo is the third largest of Irelands 32 counties in area and 15th largest in terms of population. It is the second largest of Connachts five counties in both size and population.
Geography of Colombia: The geography of Colombia is characterized by containing five main natural regions that present their own unique characteristics, from the Andes mountain range region shared with Ecuador and Venezuela; the Pacific Ocean coastal region shared with Panama and Ecuador; the Caribbean Sea coastal region shared with Venezuela and Panama; the Llanos (plains) shared with Venezuela; to the Amazon Rainforest region shared with Venezuela, Brazil, Peru and Ecuador.
Politics of Colombia: The Politics of Colombia take place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Colombia is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of congress, the Senate of Colombia and the House of Representatives of Colombia. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Christian disambiguation: Christian may refer to: anything associated with Christianity Christian, an adherent of Christianity An Evangelical Protestant (many non-denominational evangelical churches refer to themselves simply as "Christian") Name Christian (name), forename and surname, several people People known by this name alone: Prince Christian, several princes Christian, the protagonist in John Bunyan's novel The Pilgrim's Progress Christian of Clogher (d.
County Fermanagh: County Fermanagh is one of the traditional counties of Ireland. It is located within the province of Ulster and is part of Northern Ireland. As Fermanagh is situated mostly in the basin of the River Erne, it is often referred to as Ireland's Lake District, together with neighbouring County Cavan. The county is approximately 120 km (75 mi) from Belfast and 160 km (99 mi) from Dublin.
Communications in Colombia: Since being liberalized in 1991, the Colombian telecommunications sector has added new services, expanded coverage, improved efficiency, and lowered costs. The sector has had the second largest (after energy) investment in infrastructure (54 percent) since 1997. However, the economic downturn between 1999 and 2002 adversely affected telecommunications. During this period, Colombias telecommunications industry lost US$2 billion despite a profit of US$1 billion in local service.
Economy of Colombia: Economy - overview: Colombia's economy has experienced positive growth over the past three years despite a serious armed conflict. The economy continues to improve in part because of austere government budgets, focused efforts to reduce public debt levels, an export-oriented growth strategy, an improved security situation in the country, and high commodity prices.
Transport in Colombia: Transportation in Colombia is regulated by the Ministry of Transport. Road travel is the main means of transport; almost 70 percent of cargo is transported by road, as compared with 27 percent by railroad, 3 percent by internal waterways, and 1 percent by air. Nevertheless, Colombia has one of the lowest ratios of paved roads per inhabitant in Latin America. The country has well-developed air and waterway routes.
Military Forces of Colombia: The Military of Colombia, officially the Military Forces of Colombia is the armed forces of Colombia.
History of Colombia: The History of Colombia is the interaction of rival civilian elites. The political elite, which overlaps with social and economic elites, has shown a marked ability to retain the reins of power, effectively excluding other groups and social institutions, such as the masses and the military, from significant participation in or control over the political process.
Foreign relations of Colombia: Colombia seeks diplomatic and commercial relations with all countries, regardless of their ideologies or political or economic systems. For this reason, the Colombian economy is very open, relying on international trade and following the guidelines given by the international law.
Politics of the Czech Republic: Politically, the Czech Republic is a multi-party parliamentary representative democratic republic. According to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, the President is the head of state while the Prime Minister is the head of government, exercising supreme executive power. The Legislature is bicameral, with the Chamber of Deputies (Poslaneck snmovna) and the Senate (Sen).
Economy of the Czech Republic: Of the emerging democracies in central and eastern Europe, the Czech Republic has one of the most developed industrialized economies. It is one of the most stable and prosperous of the post-Communist states of Central and Eastern Europe. GDP per capita at purchasing power parity was $26,800 in 2008, which is 82% of the EU average.
Military of the Czech Republic: The Army of the Czech Republic comprise the military, air forces and support units. After joining NATO on March 12, 1999, the Czech Republic is completing a major overhaul of the extensive Czechoslovak Armed Forces (about 200,000) which until 1989 formed one of the pillars of the Warsaw Pact military alliance. Czech forces have been gradually downsized from 90,000 in 1993 to 63,601 in 1999 to 35,000 in 2005 and at the same time modernized and reoriented toward defensive posture.
Foreign relations of the Czech Republic: Until the Velvet Revolution of 1989, the foreign policy of Czechoslovakia had followed that of the Soviet Union. Since the revolution and the subsequent mutually-agreed peaceful dissolution of Czechoslovakia into the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the Czechs have made integration with Western institutions their chief foreign policy objective.
Continuity Irish Republican Army: The Continuity Irish Republican Army (CIRA) is an Irish republican paramilitary organisation that emerged from a split in the Provisional IRA in 1986. It considers itself a direct continuation of the Irish Republican Army (the army of the unilaterally-declared 1919-1922 Irish Republic) that fought in the Irish War of Independence; as such, its supporters regard it as the national army of the Irish Republic occupying all 32 counties of the island of Ireland.
Copenhagen interpretation: The Copenhagen interpretation is an interpretation of quantum mechanics. A key feature of quantum mechanics is that the state of every particle is described by a wavefunction, which is a mathematical representation used to calculate the probability for it to be found in a location or a state of motion. According to this interpretation, the act of measurement causes the calculated set of probabilities to "collapse" to the value defined by the measurement.
Customs union: A customs union is a type of trade bloc which is composed of a free trade area with a common external tariff. The participant countries set up common external trade policy, but in some cases they use different import quotas. Common competition policy is also helpful to avoid competition deficiency. Purposes for establishing a customs union normally include increasing economic efficiency and establishing closer political and cultural ties between the member countries.
Climbing: Climbing is the activity of using one's hands and feet (or indeed any other part of the body) to ascend a steep object. It is done both for recreation (to reach an inaccessible place, or for its own enjoyment) and professionally, as part of activities such as maintenance of a structure, or military operations. Climbing activities include: Bouldering: Ascending boulders or small outcrops, often with climbing shoes and a chalk bag or bucket.
Continental Europe: Continental Europe, also referred to as mainland Europe or simply the Continent, is the continent of Europe, explicitly excluding European islands. Notably, in British English usage, the term means Europe excluding the United Kingdom, the Isle of Man, the Channel Islands, Ireland and Iceland. One general definition of "Continental Europe" is the European landmass excluding the UK, Ireland and Iceland.
Council of the European Union: The Council of the European Union (officially the Council and commonly referred to as the Council of Ministers) is the principal decision-making institution of the European Union (EU). It is also called Consilium as a Latin-language compromise. This Council of the EU should not be confused with the European Council (an assembly of EU heads of state or government) or the Council of Europe (a non-EU organisation of 47 states).
Council of Europe: The Council of Europe is one of the oldest international organisation working towards European integration, having been founded in 1949. It has a particular emphasis on legal standards, human rights, democratic development, the rule of law and cultural co-operation. It has 47 member states with some 800 million citizens.
Bradycardia: Bradycardia (Greek , bradykarda, "heart slowness"), as applied to adult medicine, is defined as a resting heart rate of under 60 beats per minute, though it is seldom symptomatic until the rate drops below 50 beat/min. It may cause "heart attacks" in some patients or cardiac arrest. This occurs because someone with bradycardia may not be pumping enough oxygen to their own heart causing heart attack-like symptoms.
Canada Day: Canada Day, formerly Dominion Day, is Canada's national day, a federal statutory holiday celebrating the anniversary of the 1 July 1867 enactment of the British North America Act, which united two British colonies and a province of the British Empire into a single country called Canada. Canada Day observances take place throughout Canada as well as internationally.
Category theory: In mathematics, category theory deals in an abstract way with mathematical structures and relationships between them: it abstracts from sets and functions respectively to objects linked in diagrams by morphisms or arrows. One of the simplest examples of a category (which is a very important concept in topology) is that of groupoid, defined as a category whose arrows or morphisms are all invertible.
Congo: Congo, Kongo and Kong may refer to: Congo River Congo Basin (Congo region) File:Flag of the Republic of the Congo. svg Republic of the Congo (Congo-Brazzaville) File:Flag of the People's Republic of Congo. svg People's Republic of the Congo (1970-1991) File:Flag of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. svg Democratic Republic of the Congo (Congo-Kinshasa) File:Flag of Congo Free State. svg Congo Free State (1885-1908) File:Flag of Congo Free State.
Claudine: Claudine is the protagonist of the early novels of the French author Colette, published under the name of her husband 'Willy'. The Claudine novels are thought to be roughly autobiographical. It is also said that Willy forced Colette to write them by locking her in her room until she had produced the desired number of pages.
Carnel: Carnel is a United Kingdom role-playing game fanzine. It is dedicated to discussions of roleplaying and "non-system bound" articles and scenarios. The first issue was published in 1994.
Century: A century (from the Latin centum, meaning one hundred) is one hundred consecutive years. It is also a Roman term. Centuries are numbered ordinally in English and many other languages.
Coronary artery disease: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the end result of the accumulation of atheromatous plaques within the walls of the coronary arteries that supply the myocardium (the muscle of the heart) with oxygen and nutrients. It is sometimes also called coronary heart disease (CHD), but although CAD is the most common cause of CHD, it is not the only cause. CAD is the leading cause of death worldwide.
Caesium: Caesium or cesium is the chemical element with the symbol Cs and atomic number 55. It is a soft, silvery-gold alkali metal with a melting point of 28 (83 ), which makes it one of only five metals that are liquid at or near room temperature. Caesium has physical and chemical properties similar to those of rubidium and potassium. The metal is extremely reactive and pyrophoric, reacting with water even at 116 .
Carabiner: A carabiner or karabiner is a metal loop with a sprung or screwed gate. The loop part opposite the gate is referred to as the spine. It can quickly and reversibly connect components in safety-critical systems. The word comes from "Karabinerhaken", meaning "hook for a carbine" in German.
Charles Dickens: Charles John Huffam Dickens (7 February 1812-9 June 1870), pen-name "Boz," was the most popular English novelist of the Victorian era, and one of the most popular of all time, responsible for some of English literature's most iconic characters. Many of his novels, with their recurrent theme of social reform, first appeared in periodicals and magazines in serialised form, a popular format for fiction at the time.
Continuity fiction: In fiction, continuity (also called time-scheme) is consistency of the characteristics of persons, plot, objects, places and events seen by the reader or viewer. It is of relevance to several media. Continuity is particularly a concern in the production of film and television due to the difficulty of rectifying an error in continuity after shooting has wrapped up. It also applies to other art forms, including novels, comics, anime, videogames and animation, though usually on a smaller scale.
Capital punishment: Capital punishment, or the death penalty, is the killing of a person by judicial process as a punishment for an offense. Crimes that can result in a death penalty are known as capital crimes or capital offences. The term capital originates from Latin capitalis, literally "regarding the head" (Latin caput). Hence, a capital crime was originally one punished by the severing of the head.
Cultural movement: A cultural movement is a change in the way a number of different disciplines approach their work. This embodies all art forms, the sciences, and philosophies. Historically, different nations or regions of the world have gone through their own independent sequence of movements in culture, but as world communications have accelerated this geographical distinction has become less distinct.
Chalcogen: The chalcogens are the chemical elements in group 16 of the periodic table. This group is also known as the oxygen family. It consists of the elements oxygen (O), sulfur (S), selenium (Se), tellurium (Te), the radioactive element polonium (Po), and the synthetic element ununhexium (Uuh). The name means "ore former" from the Greek chalcos = ore and -gen = formation.
Cardiff: Cardiff is the capital, largest city and most populous county of Wales. The city is Wales' chief commercial centre, the base for most national cultural and sporting institutions, the Welsh national media, and the seat of the National Assembly for Wales. According to recent estimates, the population of the unitary authority area is 324,800. Cardiff is a significant tourism centre and the most popular visitor destination in Wales with 11.7 million visitors in 2006.
Counterpoint: In music, counterpoint is the relationship between two or more voices that are independent in contour and rhythm and are harmonically interdependent. It has been most commonly identified in classical music, developing strongly during the Renaissance and in much of the common practice period, especially in Baroque music. The term originates from the Latin punctus contra punctum meaning "point against point".
Cyanide: A cyanide is any chemical compound that contains the cyano group (CN), which consists of a carbon atom triple-bonded to a nitrogen atom. Inorganic cyanides are generally salts of the anion CN. Organic compounds that have a -CN functional group are called nitriles. Of the many kinds of cyanide compounds, some are gases; others are solids or liquids. Those that can release the cyanide ion CN are highly toxic to animals.
Cheers: Cheers is an American situation comedy television series that ran for eleven seasons from 1982 to 1993. It was produced by Charles/Burrows/Charles Productions in association with Paramount Television for NBC, having been created by the team of James Burrows, Glen Charles, and Les Charles. The show is set in the Cheers bar (named for the toast "Cheers") in Boston, Massachusetts, where a group of locals meet to drink, relax, chat and have fun.
Catalysis: Catalysis is the process in which the rate of a chemical reaction is changed (either increased or decreased) by means of a chemical substance known as a catalyst. Unlike other reagents that participate in the chemical reaction, a catalyst is not consumed by the reaction itself. The catalyst may participate in multiple chemical transformations. Catalysts that speed the reaction are called positive catalysts. Catalysts that slow down the reaction are called negative catalysts or inhibitors.
Circumference: The circumference is the distance around a closed curve. Circumference is a special perimeter.
Carbonate: In chemistry, a carbonate is a salt of carbonic acid, characterized by the presence of the carbonate ion, CO23. The name may also mean an ester of carbonic acid, an organic compound containing the carbonate group O=C(O-)2.
Constitutional law: Constitutional law is a body of law dealing with the distribution and exercise of government power. Not all nation states have codified constitutions, though all such states have a jus commune, or law of the land, that may consist of a variety of imperative and consensual rules. These may include customary law, conventions, statutory law, judge-made law or international rules and norms, etc.
Continuum mechanics: Continuum mechanics is a branch of mechanics that deals with the analysis of the kinematics and the mechanical behavior of materials modeled as a continuum. The French mathematician Augustin Louis Cauchy was the first to formulate such models in the 19th century, but research in the area continues today. Modeling an object as a continuum assumes that the substance of the object completely fills the space it occupies.
Celtic languages: The Celtic languages are descended from Proto-Celtic, or "Common Celtic", a branch of the greater Indo-European language family. The term "Celtic" was used to describe this language group by Edward Lhuyd in 1707, having much earlier been used by Greek and Roman writers to describe tribes in central Gaul.
Computation: Computation is a general term for any type of information processing. This includes phenomena ranging from human thinking to calculations with a more narrow meaning. Computation is a process following a well-defined model that is understood and can be expressed in an algorithm, protocol, network topology, etc. Computation is also a major subject matter of computer science: it investigates what can or cannot be done in a computational manner.
Color: Color or colour is the visual perceptual property corresponding in humans to the categories called red, yellow, blue and others. Color derives from the spectrum of light interacting in the eye with the spectral sensitivities of the light receptors. Color categories and physical specifications of color are also associated with objects, materials, light sources, etc. , based on their physical properties such as light absorption, reflection, or emission spectra.
Coffea: Coffea is a large genus (containing more than 90 species) of flowering plants in the madder family, Rubiaceae. They are shrubs or small trees, native to subtropical Africa and southern Asia. Seeds of several species are the source of the popular beverage coffee. After their outer hull is removed, the seeds are commonly called "beans".
Clown: Clowns are comical performers, stereotypically characterized by their grotesque appearance: colored wigs, stylistic makeup, outlandish costumes, unusually large footwear, red-nose, etc. , who entertain spectators by acting in a hilarious fashion. The types of their acts varies greatly. Although some find clowns to be scary, their intended purpose is to entertain people, especially young children.
Cycling: Cycling, also called bicycling or biking, is the use of bicycles for transport, recreation, or for sport. Persons engaged in cycling are cyclists or bicyclists. Apart from ordinary two-wheeled bicycles, cycling also includes riding a unicycle, tricycle, quadracycle, and other similar human-powered vehicles (HPVs). Bicycles were introduced in the 19th century and now number about one billion worldwide. They are the principal means of transportation in many regions.
Canon: Canon may refer to:
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (abbreviated as the LDS Church, commonly referred to as the Mormon Church) is a restorationist Christian church, and the largest denomination originating from the Latter Day Saint movement founded by Joseph Smith, Jr. Founded in Upstate New York in 1830, the church is headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah, and has established congregations (called wards or branches) worldwide.
Carbon dioxide: Carbon dioxide is a chemical compound composed of two oxygen atoms covalently bonded to a single carbon atom. It is a gas at standard temperature and pressure and exists in Earth's atmosphere in this state. CO2 is a trace gas being only 0.038% of the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is used by plants during photosynthesis to make sugars, which may either be consumed in respiration or used as the raw material to produce other organic compounds needed for plant growth and development.
CSS Virginia: CSS Virginia was a steam-powered battery design ironclad warship of the Confederate States Navy during the American Civil War, built using the remains of the scuttled USS Merrimack in 1862. She was one of the participants in the Battle of Hampton Roads in March 1862 opposite the USS Monitor. The battle is chiefly significant in naval history as the first battle between two ironclads.
Carbohydrate: A carbohydrate is an organic compound with the general formula Cm(H2O)n, that is, consisting only of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, the last two in the 2:1 atom ratio. Carbohydrates can be viewed as hydrates of carbon, hence their name. The term is most common in biochemistry, where it is a synonym of saccharide. The carbohydrates (saccharides) are divided into four chemical groupings: monosaccharides, disaccharides, oligosaccharides, and polysaccharides.
Chemical thermodynamics: Chemical thermodynamics is the study of the interrelation of heat and work with chemical reactions or with physical changes of state within the confines of the laws of thermodynamics. Chemical thermodynamics involves not only laboratory measurements of various thermodynamic properties, but also the application of mathematical methods to the study of chemical questions and the spontaneity of processes. The structure of chemical thermodynamics is based on the first two laws of thermodynamics.
Christian eschatology: The word "eschatology" is derived from two Greek words meaning "last" and "study" (, last; and , lit. discourse). It is the study of the end of things, whether the end of an individual life, the end of the age, or the end of the world. Broadly speaking, it is the study of the destiny of man as it is revealed in the Bible, which is the primary source for all Christian eschatology studies.
History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: The history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (often colloquially referred to as the Mormon Church, a term the organization itself discourages) is typically divided into three broad time periods: (1) the early history during the lifetime of Joseph Smith, Jr.
Casuistry: Casuistry is an applied ethics term referring to case-based reasoning. Casuistry is used in juridical and ethical discussions of law and ethics, and often is a critique of principle- or rule-based reasoning. The term "casuistry" originates from the Latin "casus" ("case"). Critics use the term pejoratively for the use of clever but unsound reasoning, especially in relation to moral questions.
Chinese input methods for computers: Since the Chinese language uses a logographic script that is, a script where one or more "characters" correspond roughly to one "word" or meaning there are vastly more characters, or glyphs, than there are keys on a standard computer keyboard.
Chicago White Sox: The Chicago White Sox are a Major League Baseball team based in Chicago, Illinois. The White Sox play in the American League's Central Division. Since 1991, the White Sox have played in U.S. Cellular Field, which was originally called New Comiskey Park and nicknamed The Cell by local fans. The White Sox are one of two major league clubs based in Chicago, the other being the Chicago Cubs of the National League.
Callisto: Callisto may refer to: Callisto (mythology), a nymph Callisto (moon), a moon of Jupiter Callisto (Xena), a character on Xena: Warrior Princess Callisto (comics), a fictional mutant in X-Men Callisto series, a sequence of novels by Lin Carter Callisto (band), a band from Turku, Finland Callisto, a novel by Torsten Krol Callisto, a release of version 3.2 of Eclipse, an integrated development environment Callisto, an AMD Phenom II processor core
Church of England: The Church of England is the officially established Christian church in England, the Mother Church of the worldwide Anglican Communion and the oldest among the communion's thirty-eight independent national and regional churches.
Cleveland: Cleveland is a city in the U.S. state of Ohio and the county seat of Cuyahoga County, the most populous county in the state. The municipality is located in northeastern Ohio on the southern shore of Lake Erie, approximately 60 miles (100 km) west of the Pennsylvania border. It was founded in 1796 near the mouth of the Cuyahoga River, and became a manufacturing center owing to its location at the head of numerous canals and railroad lines.
Circe: In Greek mythology, Circe is a minor goddess of magic living on the island of Aeaea. Circe's father was Helios (or Helius), the god of the sun and the owner of the land where Odysseus' men ate cattle, and her mother was Perse, an Oceanid. She was sister of two kings of Colchis, tes and Perses, and of Pasipha, mother of the Minotaur. Circe transformed her enemies, or those who offended her, into animals through the use of magical potions. She was renowned for her knowledge of drugs and herbs.
Columbus Ohio: Columbus is the capital and largest city in the U.S. state of Ohio, and the state's third largest metropolitan area, behind Cleveland and Cincinnati. It is the county seat of Franklin County, although parts of the city also extend into Delaware and Fairfield counties. Named for explorer Christopher Columbus, the city was founded in 1812 at the confluence of the Scioto and Olentangy rivers, and assumed the functions of state capital in 1816. The population was 711,470 at the 2000 census.
Cognitive psychology: Cognitive psychology is a discipline within psychology that investigates the internal mental processes of thought such as visual processing, memory, problem solving, and language. The school of thought arising from this approach is known as cognitivism which is interested in how people mentally represent information processing.
Comet: A comet is a relatively small, icy mass in the Solar System, usually larger than a meteoroid, that, when it is close enough to the Sun, displays a visible coma (a thin, fuzzy, temporary atmosphere), and sometimes also a cometary tail, both because of the effects of solar radiation and the solar wind upon the nucleus of the comet. These comet nuclei are loose collections of ice, dust, and small rocky particles, ranging from a few hundred meters in maximum extension, to tens of kilometers across.
Canadian Pacific Railway: The Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR), formerly also briefly known as CP Rail between 1968 and 1996, is a historic Canadian Class I railway founded in 1881 and now operated by Canadian Pacific Railway Limited which began operations as legal owner in a corporate restructuring in 2001. Its rail network stretches from Vancouver to Montreal, and also serves major cities in the United States such as Minneapolis, Chicago, and New York City. Its headquarters is in Calgary, Alberta.
Capitol: Capitol may refer to: the Capitoline Hill in Rome (from which the word capitol derives) a Capitolium, the temple for the Capitoline Triad in many cities of the Roman Empire A building constituting a seat of government, and/or in which a legislature meets, including: United States Capitol in Washington, D.C.
Cinema: Cinema can refer to: Film, motion pictures or movies Movie theater, a building in which films are shown Cinematography, the art of recording visual images Cinema 4D, high-end 3D graphics application Cinema (TV channel), defunct Scandinavian television channel Cinema (album), an album released by Nazareth in 1986 Cinema (Elaine Paige album), released in 1984 Cinema, the first album by ICE MC, released in 1990 "Cinema", a song by Yes from the 1983 album 90125
Compost: Compost is a combination of decomposed plant and animal materials and other organic materials that are being decomposed largely through aerobic decomposition into a rich black soil. The process of composting is simple and practiced by individuals in their homes, farmers on their land, and industrially by industries and cities. Compost soil is very rich soil and used for many purposes. A few of the places that it is used are in gardens, landscaping, horticulture, and agriculture.
Carbon sink: A carbon sink is a natural or manmade reservoir that accumulates and stores some carbon-containing chemical compound for an indefinite period. The main natural sinks are: Absorption of carbon dioxide by the oceans Photosynthesis by plants and algae Natural sinks dwarf manmade sinks. The main manmade sinks are: Landfills Carbon capture and storage proposals Farmland is in general a carbon source; there are proposals for improvements in farming practices to reverse this.
Capoeira: Capoeira is an Afro-Brazilian art form that combines elements of martial arts, music, and dance. It was created in Brazil by slaves brought from Africa, especially from present day Angola, sometime after the sixteenth century. It was developed in the region of Quilombo dos Palmares, located in the Brazilian state of Alagoas, which was the state of Pernambuco before desmembrement.
Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission: The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC, in French Conseil de la radiodiffusion et des tommunications canadiennes) was created in 1976 when it took over responsibility for regulating telecommunication carriers. Prior to 1976 it was known as the Canadian Radio and Television Commission, which was established in 1968 by the Parliament of Canada to replace the Board of Broadcast Governors.
Corundum: Corundum is a crystalline form of aluminium oxide (Al2O3) with traces of iron, titanium and chromium. It is a rock-forming mineral. It is one of the naturally clear transparent materials, but can have different colors when impurities are present. Transparent specimens are used as gems, called ruby if red, while all other colors are called sapphire. The name "corundum" is derived from the Tamil word "kuruntam" meaning "ruby", itself derived from the Sanskrit "kuruvinda".
Charles Tupper: Sir Charles Tupper, 1st Baronet, GCMG, CB, PC (July 2, 1821 - October 30, 1915) was a Canadian father of Confederation: as the Premier of Nova Scotia from 1864 to 1867, he led Nova Scotia into Confederation. He later went on to serve as the sixth Prime Minister of Canada in 1896, becoming the Canadian prime minister with the shortest term of office (69 days), as Parliament was dissolved before he took the oath of office.
Con: The stem: Con is a Latin preposition meaning "together with". It is very frequently used as the abbreviation of contra, which is a separate preposition. It may refer to: Confidence trick, also known as con, scam, or flim flam Con (TV series), secrets of the con artist revealed Convention (meeting) Fan convention, e.g. "Comic-Con" Conference, e.g.
Traditional Chinese medicine: Traditional Chinese Medicine, also known as TCM, includes a range of traditional medicine practices originating in China. Although well accepted in the mainstream of medical care throughout East Asia, it is considered an alternative medical system in much of the Western world. TCM practices include such treatments as Chinese herbal medicine, acupuncture, dietary therapy, and both Tui na and Shiatsu massage. Qigong and Taijiquan are also closely associated with TCM.
Chemical bond: A chemical bond is an attraction between atoms or molecules and allows the formation of chemical compounds, which contain two or more atoms. A chemical bond is the attraction caused by the electromagnetic force between opposing charges, either between electrons and nuclei, or as the result of a dipole attraction.
Coal: Coal is a readily combustible black or brownish-black sedimentary rock normally occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds. The harder forms, such as anthracite coal, can be regarded as metamorphic rock because of later exposure to elevated temperature and pressure. Coal is composed primarily of carbon along with variable quantities of other elements, chiefly sulfur, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen.
Cell: Cell(s) may refer to:
History of Comoros: The history of Comoros is perhaps 1500 years old. It has been inhabited by various groups throughout this time. France colonised the islands in the 19th century. Comoros finally became independent in 1975.
Climate: Climate encompasses the statistics of temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind, rainfall, atmospheric particle count and numerous other meteorological elements in a given region over long periods of time. Climate can be contrasted to weather, which is the present condition of these same elements over periods up to two weeks. The climate of a location is affected by its latitude, terrain, altitude, ice or snow cover, as well as nearby water bodies and their currents.
Geography of Comoros: The Comoros archipelago consists of four main islands aligned along a northwest-southeast axis at the north end of the Mozambique Channel, between Mozambique and the island of Madagascar. Still widely known by their French names, the islands officially have been called by their Swahili names by the Comorian government. They are Njazidja, Mwali, Nzwani, and Mahor.
Politics of the Comoros: Politics of the Union of the Comoros takes place in a framework of a federal presidential republic, whereby the President of the Comoros is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Federal legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. As of 2008, Comoros and Mauritania are considered by US-based organization Freedom House as the only real electoral democracies of the Arab World.
Demographics of Comoros: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Comoros, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The Comorians inhabiting Grande Comore, Anjouan, and Mohi (86% of the population) share African-Arab origins. Islam is the dominant religion, and Quranic schools for children reinforce its influence.
Foreign relations of the Comoros: In November 1975, Comoros became the 143rd member of the United Nations. The new nation was defined as consisting of the entire archipelago, despite the fact that France maintains control over Mayotte.
Computer worm: A computer worm is a self-replicating Malware computer program. It uses a computer network to send copies of itself to other nodes (computers on the network) and it may do so without any user intervention. This is due to security shortcomings on the target computer. Unlike a virus, it does not need to attach itself to an existing program.
Military of Comoros: The Military of Comoros (French Arm nationale de deloppement) consist of a small standing army and a 500-member police force, as well as a 500-member defense force. A defense treaty with France provides naval resources for protection of territorial waters, training of Comorian military personnel, and air surveillance. France maintains a small troop presence in Comoros at government request. France maintains a small maritime base and a Foreign Legion Detachment (DLEM) on Mayotte.
Chomsky hierarchy: Within the field of computer science, specifically in the area of formal languages, the Chomsky hierarchy (occasionally referred to as Chomsky-Schtzenberger hierarchy) is a containment hierarchy of classes of formal grammars. This hierarchy of grammars was described by Noam Chomsky in 1956. It is also named after Marcel-Paul Schtzenberger who played a crucial role in the development of the theory of formal languages.
CRT: CRT may refer to:
Cathode ray tube: The cathode ray tube (CRT) is a vacuum tube containing an electron gun (a source of electrons) and a fluorescent screen, with internal or external means to accelerate and deflect the electron beam, used to create images in the form of light emitted from the fluorescent screen. The image may represent electrical waveforms, pictures, radar targets and others. The CRT uses an evacuated glass envelope which is large, deep, heavy, and relatively fragile.
Crystal: A crystal or crystalline solid is a solid material, whose constituent atoms, molecules, or ions are arranged in an orderly repeating pattern extending in all three spatial dimensions. The scientific study of crystals and crystal formation is crystallography. The process of crystal formation via mechanisms of crystal growth is called crystallization or solidification.
Transport in Comoros: There are a number of systems of transport in Comoros. Comoros possesses 880 km (547 mi) of highway, of which 673 km (418 mi) are paved. It additionally has three seaports: Fomboni, Moroni and Moutsamoudou, and does not have a merchant marine, or railway network. In terms of airports, the country possesses four, all with paved runways. Of the airports, one has runways of length exceeding 2,438 m (7,999 ft), with the remaining three having runways shorter than 1,523 m (4,997 ft).
Cytosine: Cytosine is one of the four main bases found in DNA and RNA. It is a pyrimidine derivative, with a heterocyclic aromatic ring and two substituents attached (an amine group at position 4 and a keto group at position 2). The nucleoside of cytosine is cytidine. In Watson-Crick base pairing, it forms three hydrogen bonds with guanine.
Computational chemistry: Computational chemistry is a branch of chemistry that uses principles of computer science to assist in solving chemical problems. It uses the results of theoretical chemistry, incorporated into efficient computer programs, to calculate the structures and properties of molecules and solids. While its results normally complement the information obtained by chemical experiments, it can in some cases predict hitherto unobserved chemical phenomena.
Crash 1973 novel: Crash is a novel by English author J. G. Ballard, first published in 1973. It is a story about symphorophilia or car-crash sexual fetishism: its protagonists become sexually aroused by staging and participating in real car-crashes. The novel was written in a highly sensationalized manner. It was a highly controversial novel: famously one publisher's reader returned the verdict "This author is beyond psychiatric help.
Castle of the Winds: Castle of the Winds (CotW) is a tile-based roguelike computer game for Windows 3.x. It was developed by SaadaSoft and published by Epic MegaGames in 1989.
Calvinism: Calvinism (also called the Reformed tradition, the Reformed faith, or Reformed theology) is a theological system and an approach to the Christian life.
C programming language: C (pronounced "See") is a general-purpose computer programming language developed in 1972 by Dennis Ritchie at the Bell Telephone Laboratories for use with the Unix operating system. Although C was designed for implementing system software, it is also widely used for developing portable application software. C is one of the most popular programming languages and there are very few computer architectures for which a C compiler does not exist.
Cytology: Cytology (from Greek , kytos, "a hollow"; and -, ') means "the study of cells". Cytology is that branch of life science, which deals with the study of cells in terms of structure, function and chemistry. Based on usage it can refer to: Cytopathology - the study of cellular disease and the use of cellular changes for the diagnosis of disease. Cell biology - the study of (normal) cellular anatomy, function and chemistry.
Countable set: In mathematics, a countable set is a set with the same cardinality as some subset of the set of natural numbers. A set that is not countable is called uncountable. The term was originated by Georg Cantor. The elements of a countable set can be counted one at a time - although the counting may never finish, every element of the set will eventually be associated with a natural number. Some authors use countable set to mean a set with the same cardinality as the set of natural numbers.
Celibacy: Celibacy is defined as the lifestyle of someone who is, and is striving to remain, unmarried all his/her life. It is also used to describe a state of life where one chooses to abstain from all sexual activities (also known as "continence"). Often, it is incorrectly used to refer to a mixed, an involuntary, or even temporary abstinence from sexual relations - celibacy is by definition a freely chosen state of being unmarried and practicing sexual abstinence.
Cahn Ingold Prelog priority rules: The Cahn-Ingold-Prelog priority rules, CIP system or CIP conventions after Robert Sidney Cahn, Christopher Kelk Ingold and Vladimir Prelog are a set of rules used in organic chemistry to name the stereoisomers of a molecule . A molecule may contain any number of stereocenters and any number of double bonds, and each gives rise to two possible configurations.
Coalition government: A coalition government is a cabinet of a parliamentary government in which several parties cooperate. The usual reason given for this arrangement is that no party on its own can achieve a majority in the parliament. A coalition government might also be created in a time of national difficulty or crisis, for example during wartime, to give a government the high degree of perceived political legitimacy it desires whilst also playing a role in diminishing internal political strife.
Chemical engineering: Chemical engineering is the branch of engineering that deals with the application of physical science, and life sciences with mathematics, to the process of converting raw materials or chemicals into more useful or valuable forms. In addition to producing useful materials, modern chemical engineering is also concerned with pioneering valuable new materials and techniques - such as nanotechnology, fuel cells and biomedical engineering.
List of comedians: A comedian is one who entertains through comedy, such as jokes and other forms of humour.
Clodius: Clodius is an alternate form of the Roman nomen Claudius, a patrician gens that was traditionally regarded as Sabine in origin. The alternation of o and au is characteristic of the Sabine dialect. The feminine form is Clodia (representing an alternate form of Claudia).
Cicero: Marcus Tullius Cicero (January 3, 106 BC - December 7, 43 BC) was a Roman philosopher, statesman, lawyer, political theorist, and Roman constitutionalist. He was member of a wealthy family of the equestrian order, and is widely considered one of Rome's greatest orators and prose stylists. Cicero is generally perceived to be one of the most versatile minds of ancient Rome.
Compact space: In mathematics, more specifically general topology and metric topology, a compact space is an abstract mathematical space in which, intuitively, whenever one takes an infinite number of "steps" in the space, eventually one must get arbitrarily close to some other point of the space.
Continental drift: Continental drift is the movement of the Earth's continents relative to each other. The hypothesis that continents 'drift' was first put forward by Abraham Ortelius in 1596 and was fully developed by Alfred Wegener in 1912. However, it was not until the development of the theory of plate tectonics in the 1960s, that a sufficient geological explanation of that movement was found.
Commodores: The Commodores are an American funk/soul band of the 1970s and 1980s. The members of the group met as freshmen at Tuskegee Institute in 1968, and signed with Motown in November 1972, having first caught the public eye opening for The Jackson 5 while on tour. The Commodores have sold over 75 million records worldwide.
Collagen: Collagen is a group of naturally occurring proteins. In nature, it is found exclusively in animals. It is the main protein of connective tissue. It is the most abundant protein in mammals, making up about 25% to 35% of the whole-body protein content. In muscle tissue it serves as a major component of endomysium. Collagen constitutes 1% to 2% of muscle tissue, and accounts for 6% of the weight of strong, tendinous muscles. Gelatin, which is used in food and industry, is derived from collagen.
Cursus honorum: The cursus honorum was the sequential order of public offices held by aspiring politicians in both the Roman Republic and the early Empire. It was designed for men of senatorial rank. The cursus honorum comprised a mixture of military and political administration posts. Each office had a minimum age for election. There were minimum intervals between holding successive offices and laws forbade repeating an office.
Campaign for Real Ale: The Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA) is an independent, voluntary, consumer organisation based in St Albans, England, whose main aims are promoting real ale, real cider and the traditional British pub. It is now the largest single-issue consumer group in the UK, and is a founding member of the European Beer Consumers' Union (EBCU).
Calvin and Hobbes: Calvin and Hobbes is a syndicated daily comic strip written and illustrated by American cartoonist Bill Watterson, and syndicated from November 18, 1985 to December 31, 1995. It follows the humorous antics of Calvin, a highly precocious and adventurous six-year-old boy, and Hobbes, his sardonic stuffed tiger. The pair are named after John Calvin, a 16th-century French Reformation theologian, and Thomas Hobbes, a 17th-century English political philosopher.
Craps: Craps is a dice game in which players place wagers on the outcome of the roll or a series of rolls of two dice. Players may wager money against each other (street craps) or a bank. Because it requires little equipment, street craps can be played in informal settings.
Carl von Clausewitz: Carl Philipp Gottlieb von Clausewitz (July 1, 1780 - November 16, 1831) was a Prussian soldier, military historian and military theorist. He is most notable for his military treatise Vom Kriege, translated into English as On War.
Common Lisp: Common Lisp, commonly abbreviated CL, is a dialect of the Lisp programming language, published in ANSI standard document ANSI INCITS 226-1994 (R2004), (formerly X3.226-1994). From the ANSI Common Lisp standard the Common Lisp HyperSpec has been derived for use with web browsers. Common Lisp was developed to standardize the divergent variants of Lisp (though mainly the MacLisp variants) which predated it, thus it is not an implementation but rather a language specification.
Cortex: Cortex may refer to: Anatomy: Cortex (anatomy), the outermost or superficial layer of an organ brain: the Cerebral cortex (usually just cortex), the outer layer of the vertebrate cerebrum, part of which is the forebrain the Motor cortex, the regions of the cerebral cortex involved in voluntary motor functions the Prefrontal cortex, the anterior part of the frontal lobes of the brain the Visual cortex, regions of the cerebral cortex involved in visual functions.
Collection: Collection or Collections may refer to: Collection (computing), the abstract concept of collections in computer science Collection (mathematics), a set, class, family, or multiset; for brevity in proofs the term is often used loosely to make general statements, to avoid specifying which (if any) of these formal objects is meant. Collection (payment), a term referring to creditor's pulled direct debit payments.
CGI: CGI may mean: California Graduate Institute, an independent graduate school specializing in psychology Cape Girardeau Regional Airport, an airport in Cape Girardeau, Missouri, United States Catholic Guides of Ireland, a girl guide association Cell Global Identity, unique identifier of a cell site in cellular networks such as GSM and UMTS CGI Group, an information technology and business process services company CGI.
Cauchy sequence: In mathematics, a Cauchy sequence, named after Augustin-Louis Cauchy, is a sequence whose elements become arbitrarily close to each other as the sequence progresses. To be more precise, by dropping enough (but still only a finite number of) terms from the start of the sequence, it is possible to make the maximum of the distances from any of the remaining elements to any other such element smaller than any preassigned, necessarily positive, value.
CPD: CPD can refer to any of the following:
Common Era: Common Era, abbreviated as CE, is a designation for the world's most commonly used year-numbering system.
Charles Robert Malden: Charles Robert Malden (August 9, 1797 - May 23, 1855), was a 19th century British naval officer, surveyor and educator. Discoverer of Malden Island in the central Pacific, which is named in his honour. Founder of the Windlesham House School at Brighton, England. Malden was born in Putney, Surrey, son of Jonas Malden, a surgeon. He entered British naval service at the age of 11 on 22 June 1809.
Canonization: Canonization (or canonisation) is the act by which a Christian church or group declares a deceased person to be a saint and is included in the canon, or list, of recognized saints. Originally, individuals were recognized as saints without any formal process. Canonization, whether formal or informal, does not make someone a saint: it is only a declaration that the person is a saint and was a saint even before canonization.
Carboxylic acid: Carboxylic acids are organic acids characterized by the presence of at least one carboxyl group, which has the formula -C(=O)OH, usually written -COOH or -CO2H. Carboxylic acids are Brsted-Lowry acids they are proton donors. Salts and anions of carboxylic acids are called carboxylates. The general formula of a carboxylic acid is therefore R-COOH, where R is some monovalent functional group.
Chechnya: The Chechen Republic, or, informally, Chechnya, sometimes referred to as Ichkeria, Chechnia, Chechenia or Noxyn, is a federal subject of Russia. It is located in Southeastern part of Europe, in the Northern Caucasus mountains, in the Southern Federal District. As at 1 January 2010, the population was 1,267,740 (according to Russian State statistics).
Chernobyl: Chornobyl, or Chernobyl, is a city in northern Ukraine, in Kiev Oblast, near the border with Belarus. The city was evacuated in 1986 due to the Chernobyl disaster at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, located 14.5 kilometers (9 miles) north-northwest. The power plant is within Chernobyl Raion (District), but the city was not the residence of the power plant workers.
Cyan: Cyan may be used as the name of any of a number of colors in the blue/green range of the spectrum. In reference to the visible spectrum cyan is used to refer to the color obtained by mixing equal amounts of green and blue light or the removal of red from white light. As such, cyan is the complement of red in RGB and CMYK color models: cyan pigments absorb red light. Cyan is also called aqua or blue-green, and was previously known as "cyan blue".
Conventional insulinotherapy: Conventional insulinotherapy is a therapeutic regimen for treatment of diabetes mellitus which contrasts with the newer intensive insulinotherapy. This older method (prior to the development home blood glucose monitoring) is still in use in a proportion of cases. Conventional insulin therapy has these characteristics: Insulin injections of a mixture of rapid and intermediate acting insulin are performed two or three times daily.
CPL: CPL or Cpl may stand for: In business: Cost per Lead, associated with the Pay per Lead Marketing method.
CNO cycle: The CNO cycle, or sometimes Bethe-Weizsker-cycle, is one of two sets of fusion reactions by which stars convert hydrogen to helium, the other being the proton-proton chain. Theoretical models show that the CNO cycle is the dominant source of energy in stars more massive than about 1.5 times the mass of the sun. The proton-proton chain is more important in stars the mass of the sun or less.
Cream: Cream is a dairy product that is composed of the higher-butterfat layer skimmed from the top of milk before homogenization. In un-homogenized milk, over time, the lighter fat rises to the top. In the industrial production of cream this process is accelerated by using centrifuges called "separators". In many countries, cream is sold in several grades depending on the total butterfat content. Cream can be dried to a powder for shipment to distant markets.
Chain rule: In calculus, the chain rule is a formula for the derivative of the composite of two functions. In intuitive terms, if a variable, y, depends on a second variable, u, which in turn depends on a third variable, x, then the rate of change of y with respect to x can be computed as the rate of change of y with respect to u multiplied by the rate of change of u with respect to x. Schematically,
Chemical vapor deposition: Chemical vapor deposition (CVD) is a chemical process used to produce high-purity, high-performance solid materials. The process is often used in the semiconductor industry to produce thin films. In a typical CVD process, the wafer (substrate) is exposed to one or more volatile, which react and/or decompose on the substrate surface to produce the desired deposit. Frequently, volatile by-products are also produced, which are removed by gas flow through the reaction chamber.
P versus NP problem: The relationship between the complexity classes P and NP is an unsolved question in theoretical computer science. It is considered by many theoretical computer scientists to be the most important problem in the field.
Carnot heat engine: A Carnot heat engine is a hypothetical engine that operates on the reversible Carnot cycle. The basic model for this engine was developed by Nicolas Lnard Sadi Carnot in 1824. The Carnot engine model was graphically expanded upon by Benot Paul ile Clapeyron in 1834 and mathematically elaborated upon by Rudolf Clausius in the 1850s and 60s from which the concept of entropy emerged. Every thermodynamic system exists in a particular state.
Context-sensitive: Context-sensitive is an adjective meaning "depending on context" or "depending on circumstances". It may refer to: Context-sensitive grammar Context-sensitive language Context-sensitive help Context sensitive user interface in computing
Charles Sanders Peirce: Charles Sanders Peirce (September 10, 1839 - April 19, 1914) was an American philosopher, logician, mathematician, and scientist, born in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Peirce was educated as a chemist and employed as a scientist for 30 years. It is largely his contributions to logic, mathematics, philosophy, and semiotics (and his founding of pragmatism) that are appreciated today.
CN Tower: The CN Tower, located in downtown Toronto, Ontario, Canada, is a communications and observation tower standing 553.3 metres (1,815 ft) tall. It surpassed the height of the Ostankino Tower while still under construction in 1975, becoming the tallest free-standing structure on land in the world for the next 31 years. On September 12, 2007 the CN Tower was surpassed in height by Burj Khalifa (formerly known as Burj Dubai).
Central America: Central America Central America is the central geographic region of the Americas. It is the southernmost, isthmian portion of the North American continent, which connects with South America on the southeast. Most of Central America is considered to be part of the Mesoamerican biodiversity hotspot.
Continuous function: In mathematics, a continuous function is a function for which, intuitively, small changes in the input result in small changes in the output. Otherwise, a function is said to be discontinuous. A continuous function with a continuous inverse function is called bicontinuous. An intuitive though imprecise (and inexact) idea of continuity is given by the common statement that a continuous function is a function whose graph can be drawn without lifting the chalk from the blackboard.
Curl mathematics: In vector calculus, the curl (or rotor) is a vector operator that describes the infinitesimal rotation of a 3-dimensional vector field. At every point in the field, the curl is represented by a vector. The attributes of this vector (length and direction) characterize the rotation at that point. The direction of the curl is the axis of rotation, as determined by the right-hand rule, and the magnitude of the curl is the magnitude of rotation.
Complexity theory: Complexity theory may refer to: The study of complex systems. Computational complexity theory, a field in theoretical computer science and mathematics dealing with the resources required during computation to solve a given problem. The theoretical treatment of Kolmogorov complexity of a string studied in algorithmic information theory by identifying the length of the shortest binary program which can output that string.
Cornish language: The Cornish language is a Brythonic Celtic language and a recognised minority language of the United Kingdom, spoken in Cornwall. The language continued to function as a community language in parts of Cornwall until the late 18th century, and a process to revive the language was started in the early 20th century, continuing to this day. The revival of Cornish began in 1904 when Henry Jenner, a Celtic language enthusiast, published his book Handbook of the Cornish Language.
Charybdis: In Greek mythology, Charybdis or Kharybdis was a sea monster, once a beautiful naiad and the daughter of Poseidon and Gaia. She takes form as a huge bladder of a creature whose face was all mouth and whose arms and legs were flippers and who swallows huge amounts of water three times a day before belching them back out again, creating whirlpools. In some variations of the tale, Charybdis is just a large whirlpool rather than a sea monster.
Carl Friedrich Gauss: Johann Carl Friedrich Gauss (30 April 1777 - 23 February 1855) was a German mathematician and scientist who contributed significantly to many fields, including number theory, statistics, analysis, differential geometry, geodesy, geophysics, electrostatics, astronomy and optics.
Christoph Ludwig Agricola: Christoph Ludwig Agricola (November 5, 1667 - 1719) was a German landscape painter. He was born and died at Regensburg (Ratisbon). He spent a great part of his life in travel, visiting England, the Netherlands and France, and residing for a considerable period at Naples. His numerous landscapes, chiefly cabinet pictures, are remarkable for fidelity to nature, and especially for their skilful representation of varied phases of climate.
Conjecture: A conjecture is a proposition that is unproven but appears correct and has not been disproven. Karl Popper pioneered the use of the term "conjecture" in scientific philosophy. Conjecture is contrasted by hypothesis, which is a testable statement based on accepted grounds. In mathematics, a conjecture is an unproven proposition or theorem that appears correct.
Claudius: Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus (1 August 10 BC - 13 October AD 54) (Tiberius Claudius Drusus from birth to AD 4, then Tiberius Claudius Nero Germanicus from then until his accession) was the fourth Roman Emperor, a member of the Julio-Claudian dynasty, ruling from 24 January AD 41 to his death in AD 54. Born in Lugdunum in Gaul, to Drusus and Antonia Minor, he was the first Roman Emperor to be born outside Italia.
Carbon monoxide: Carbon monoxide (CO) is a colorless, odorless and tasteless gas, which is highly toxic to humans and animals. It consists of one carbon atom and one oxygen atom, connected by a covalent double bond and a dative covalent bond. It is the simplest oxocarbon, and is an anhydride of formic acid. In coordination complexes the carbon monoxide ion is called carbonyl.
Cardinal: Cardinal may refer to: Cardinal (bird) Cardinal (Catholicism), a senior official of the Catholic Church
Cardinality: In mathematics, the cardinality of a set is a measure of the "number of elements of the set". For example, the set A = (2, 4, 6) contains 3 elements, and therefore A has a cardinality of 3. There are two approaches to cardinality - one which compares sets directly using bijections and injections, and another which uses cardinal numbers.
Cardinal number: In mathematics, cardinal numbers, or cardinals for short, are a generalization of the natural numbers used to measure the cardinality (size) of sets. The cardinality of a finite set is a natural number - the number of elements in the set. The transfinite cardinal numbers describe the sizes of infinite sets. Cardinality is defined in terms of bijective functions. Two sets have the same cardinal number if and only if there is a bijection between them.
Cecil B. DeMille: Cecil Blount DeMille (August 12, 1881-January 21, 1959) was a legendary American film director and Academy Award-winning film producer in both silent and sound films. He was renowned for the flamboyance and showmanship of his movies. Among some of his most well-known films are The Ten Commandments (1956), Cleopatra (1934), and The Greatest Show on Earth (1952), which won the Academy Award for Best Picture.
Chinese Islamic cuisine: Chinese Islamic cuisine ( qngzhnc or huzc) is the cuisine of the Hui (ethnic Chinese Muslims) and other Muslims living in the People's Republic of China.
Cantor set: In mathematics, the Cantor set, introduced by German mathematician Georg Cantor in 1883 (but discovered in 1875 by Henry John Stephen Smith), is a set of points lying on a single line segment that has a number of remarkable and deep properties. Through consideration of it, Cantor and others helped lay the foundations of modern general topology.
Cantonese cuisine: Cantonese (Yuet) cuisine comes from Canton in southern China. Of all the regional varieties of Chinese cuisine, Cantonese is renowned both inside and outside China. Its prominence outside China is due to the great numbers of early emigrants from Guangdong. In China, too, it enjoys great prestige among the eight great traditions of Chinese cuisine, and Cantonese chefs are highly sought after throughout the country.
Teochew cuisine: Chiuchow cuisine, Teochew cuisine or Chaozhou cuisine or Chaoshan cuisine originates from Chaoshan, a region of China in the north-easternmost area of the Guangdong Province, which includes the cities of Chaozhou, Shantou and Jieyang. Teochew cuisine, however, bears more similarities to Fujian cuisine, as which it shares many of the same dishes, than to Cantonese cuisine, under which it is vulnerable to inaccurate categorisation.
Co-NP: In computational complexity theory, co-NP is a complexity class. A problem is a member of co-NP if and only if its complement is in complexity class NP. In simple terms, co-NP is the class of problems for which efficiently verifiable proofs of no instances, sometimes called counterexamples, exist.
Chuck Yeager: Charles Elwood "Chuck" Yeager (born February 13, 1923) is a retired major general in the United States Air Force and noted test pilot. He is widely considered to be the first pilot to travel faster than sound (1947). Originally retiring as a brigadier general, Yeager was promoted to major general on the Air Force's retired list 20 years later for his military achievements. His career began in World War II as a private in the United States Army Air Forces.
Cajun cuisine: Cajun cuisine is named for the French-speaking Acadian or "Cajun" immigrants deported by the British from Acadia in Canada to the Acadiana region of Louisiana, USA. It is what could be called a rustic cuisine - locally available ingredients predominate, and preparation is simple.
Buddhist cuisine: Buddhist cuisine is an East Asian cuisine which is followed by some believers of Buddhism. It is primarily vegetarian, in order to keep with the general Buddhist precept of ahimsa (non-violence). Parts of Ancient India were also Buddhist, and many Indians remain vegetarian.
Constantin von Tischendorf: Lobegott Friedrich Constantin (von) Tischendorf (January 18, 1815 - December 7, 1874) was a noted German Biblical scholar. He deciphered the Codex Ephraemi Rescriptus, a 5th century Greek manuscript of the New Testament, in the 1840s, and rediscovered the Codex Sinaiticus, a 4th century New Testament manuscript, in 1859. Tischendorf exemplified the buccaneer image of 19th century archaeology in his pursuit of unknown manuscripts.
Calvin Coolidge: John Calvin Coolidge, Jr. (July 4, 1872 - January 5, 1933) was the 30th President of the United States (1923-1929). A Republican lawyer from Vermont, Coolidge worked his way up the ladder of Massachusetts state politics, eventually becoming governor of that state. His actions during the Boston Police Strike of 1919 thrust him into the national spotlight. Soon after, he was elected as the 29th Vice President in 1920 and succeeded to the Presidency upon the sudden death of Warren G.
Clanking replicator: A clanking replicator is an artificial self-replicating system that relies on conventional large-scale technology and automation. The term evolved to distinguish such systems from the microscopic "assemblers" that nanotechnology may make possible. They are also sometimes called "Auxons", from the Greek word auxein which means "to grow", or "von Neumann machines" after John von Neumann, who first rigorously studied the idea.
Convention on Biological Diversity: The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), known informally as the Biodiversity Convention, is an international legally binding treaty that was adopted in Rio de Janeiro in June 1992.
Cologne: Cologne is Germany's fourth-largest city (after Berlin, Hamburg and Munich), and is the largest city both in the German Federal State of North Rhine-Westphalia and within the Rhine-Ruhr Metropolitan Area, one of the major European metropolitan areas with more than ten million inhabitants. It is one of the oldest cities in Germany, having been founded by the Romans in the year 38 BC. The name is derived from that of the Roman settlement, Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium.
Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution: The Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution, often abbreviated as Air Pollution or CLRTAP, is intended to protect the human environment against air pollution and to gradually reduce and prevent air pollution, including long-range transboundary air pollution. The convention opened for signature on 1979-11-13 and entered into force on 1983-03-16. The current parties to the Convention are shown on the map.
Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the High Seas: The Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the High Seas is an agreement that was designed to solve through international cooperation the problems involved in the conservation of living resources of the high seas, considering that because of the development of modern technology some of these resources are in danger of being overexploited.
Environmental Modification Convention: The Environmental Modification Convention (ENMOD), formally the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques is an international treaty prohibiting the military or other hostile use of environmental modification techniques. It opened for signature on 18 May 1977 in Geneva and entered into force on October 5, 1978.
CITES: CITES (the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, also known as the Washington Convention) is an international agreement between governments, drafted as a result of a resolution adopted in 1973 at a meeting of members of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
Chaitin's constant: In the computer science subfield of algorithmic information theory a Chaitin constant or halting probability is a real number that informally represents the probability that a randomly-chosen program will halt. These numbers are formed from a construction due to Gregory Chaitin. Although there are infinitely many halting probabilities, it is common to use the letter to refer to them as if there were only one.
Computable number: In mathematics, particularly theoretical computer science and mathematical logic, the computable numbers, also known as the recursive numbers or the computable reals, are the real numbers that can be computed to within any desired precision by a finite, terminating algorithm. Equivalent definitions can be given using -recursive functions, Turing machines or -calculus as the formal representation of algorithms.
Electric current: Electric current means, depending on the context, a flow of electric charge or the rate of flow of electric charge.
Clark Ashton Smith: Clark Ashton Smith (13 January 1893 - 14 August 1961) was an American poet, sculptor, painter and author of fantasy, horror and science fiction short stories. It is for these stories, and his literary friendship with H. P. Lovecraft from 1922 until Lovecraft's death in 1937, that he is mostly remembered today. With Lovecraft and Robert E. Howard, also a friend and correspondent, Smith remains one of the most famous contributors to the pulp magazine Weird Tales.
Charles Ancillon: Charles Ancillon (28 July 1659 - 5 July 1715) was a French jurist and diplomat. Ancillon was born in Metz into a distinguished family of Huguenots. His father, David Ancillon (1617-1692), was obliged to leave France on the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, and became pastor of the French Protestant community in Berlin. Ancillon studied law at Marburg, Geneva, and Paris, where he was called to the bar.
Context-sensitive language: In theoretical computer science, a context-sensitive language is a formal language that can be defined by a context-sensitive grammar. That is one of the four types of grammars in the Chomsky hierarchy. Of the four, this is the least often used, in both theory and practice.
Context-sensitive grammar: A context-sensitive grammar (CSG) is a formal grammar in which the left-hand sides and right-hand sides of any production rules may be surrounded by a context of terminal and nonterminal symbols. Context-sensitive grammars are more general than context-free grammars but still orderly enough to be parsed by a linear bounded automaton.
Chinese room: The Chinese room argument comprises a thought experiment and associated arguments by John Searle (1980), which attempts to show that a symbol-processing machine like a computer can never be properly described as having a "mind" or "understanding", regardless of how intelligently it may behave.
Charon: Charon may refer to: Ancient world Charon (mythology), in Greek mythology, the ferryman who ferried the dead to the underworld Charon of Lampsacus, ancient Greek logographer (history) Charon, a Theban military commander (fl.
Circle: A circle is a simple shape of Euclidean geometry consisting of those points in a plane which are equidistant from a given point called the center. The common distance of the points of a circle from its center is called its radius. Circles are simple closed curves which divide the plane into two regions, an interior and an exterior.
Cardinal Catholicism: A cardinal is a senior ecclesiastical official, usually a bishop, of the Catholic Church. They are collectively known as the College of Cardinals, which as a body elects a new pope. The duties of the cardinals include attending the meetings of the College and making themselves available individually or collectively to the pope if he requests their counsel. Most cardinals have additional duties, such as leading a diocese or archdiocese or running a department of the Roman Curia.
Cantigas de Santa Maria: The Cantigas de Santa Maria ("Canticles of Holy Mary") are manuscripts written in Galician-Portuguese, with musical notation, during the reign of Alfonso X El Sabio (1221-1284) and are one of the largest collections of monophonic (solo) songs from the Middle Ages. All of the songs at least mention the Virgin Mary, and every 10th is a religious hymn. Some of the manuscripts containing this music also contain colored miniatures showing pairs of musicians playing a wide variety of instruments.
Claudio Monteverdi: Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi (15 May 1567 - 29 November 1643) was an Italian composer, gambist, and singer. Monteverdi's work, often regarded as revolutionary, marked the transition from the Renaissance style of music to that of the Baroque period. He developed two individual styles of composition: the new basso continuo technique of the Baroque and the heritage of Renaissance polyphony.
Canadian Shield: The Canadian Shieldalso called the Laurentian Plateau, or Bouclier Canadien (French)is a massive geological shield covered by a thin layer of soil that forms the nucleus of the North American or Laurentia craton. It is an area mainly covered by igneous rock which relates to its long volcanic history.
Colossus computer: The Colossus machines were electronic computing devices used by British codebreakers to read encrypted German messages during World War II. These were the world's first programmable, digital, electronic, computing devices. They used vacuum tubes (thermionic valves) to perform the calculations.
Comic book: A comic book (often shortened to simply comic and sometimes called a funny book, comic paper or comic magazine) is a magazine made up of narrative artwork, often accompanied by dialog (usually in word balloons, emblematic of the comic book artform) and often including brief descriptive prose. The first comic book appeared in the United States of America in 1934, reprinting the earlier newspaper comic strips, which established many of the story-telling devices used in comics.
Connected space: In topology and related branches of mathematics, a connected space is a topological space which cannot be represented as the union of two or more disjoint nonempty open subsets. Connectedness is one of the principal topological properties that is used to distinguish topological spaces. A stronger notion is that of a path-connected space, which is a space where any two points can be joined by a path.
Contraction mapping: In mathematics, a contraction mapping, or contraction, on a metric space (M,d) is a function f from M to itself, with the property that there is some real number such that for all x and y in M, The smallest such value of k is called the Lipschitz constant of f. Contractive maps are sometimes called Lipschitzian maps. If the above condition is satisfied for, then the mapping is said to be non-expansive.
Christmas: Christmas or Christmas Day is a holiday held on December 25 to commemorate the birth of Jesus, the central figure of Christianity. The date is not known to be the actual birth date of Jesus, and may have initially been chosen to correspond with either the day exactly nine months after some early Christians believed Jesus had been conceived, the date of the winter solstice on the ancient Roman calendar, or one of various ancient winter festivals.
Cell nucleus: In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel), also sometimes referred to as the "control center", is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. It contains most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes. The genes within these chromosomes are the cell's nuclear genome.
Chardonnay socialist: Chardonnay socialist is a derogatory Australasian term used to describe those on the political left with comfortable middle-class (or better) incomes, tertiary education, and a taste for the finer things in life. It is similar in thrust to the American term limousine liberal, though without quite the same taint of great wealth attaching to it. The term was modelled on the British term: Champagne socialist. When the term was coined around 1989, Chardonnay was seen as a drink of affluent people.
List of climbing areas: This is a list of articles about climbing areas and regions associated with climbing. Table of Contents
On-sight climbing: On-sight climbing means to attempt a rock climbing route for the first time without inspection or any form of "beta" (such as route description, watching others climb it, etc.). Climbing equipment, such as Quickdraws or other protection equipment, is not pre-placed on the route during an on-sight. On-sighting is a form of adventure climbing emphasizing the skills of route finding, quick thinking and problem solving.
Covalent bond: A covalent bond is a form of chemical bonding that is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms, and other covalent bonds. In short, the attraction-to-repulsion stability that forms between atoms when they share electrons is known as covalent bonding. Covalent bonding includes many kinds of interaction, including -bonding, -bonding, metal to metal bonding, agostic interactions, and three-center two-electron bonds. The term covalent bond dates from 1939.
Timeline of computing: This article presents a detailed timeline of events in the history of computing. For a narrative explaining the overall developments, see the related history of computing hardware and history of computer science. Computing timelines: 2400 BC-1949, 1950-1979, 1980-1989, 1990-1999, 2000-present
Professional certification: Professional certification, trade certification, or professional designation, often called simply certification or qualification, is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task. Many certifications are used as post-nominal letters indicating an earned privilege from an oversight professional body acting to safeguard the public interest.
Colorado Springs Colorado: Colorado Springs is a Home Rule Municipality that is the county seat and most populous city of El Paso County, Colorado, United States. It is located just east of the geographic center of the state and 61 miles (98 km) south of the Colorado State Capitol in Denver. At 6,035 feet the city sits over one mile above sea level, though some areas of the city are significantly higher.
Condensation polymer: Condensation polymers are any kind of polymers formed through a condensation reaction, releasing small molecules as by-products such as water or methanol, as opposed to addition polymers which involve the reaction of unsaturated monomers. Types of condensation polymers include polyamides, polyacetals and polyesters. Condensation polymerization, a form of step-growth polymerization, is a process by which two molecules join together, resulting loss of small molecules which is often water.
Carl Menger: Carl Menger (February 28, 1840 - February 26, 1921) was the founder of the Austrian School of economics, famous for contributing to the development of the theory of marginal utility, which contested the cost-of-production theories of value, developed by the classical economists such as Adam Smith and David Ricardo. Menger was born in Nowy Scz in Austrian Galicia,. He was the son of a wealthy family of minor nobility; his father, Anton, was a lawyer.
List of cartoonists: See also: List of comic strips.
Civilization video game: Sid Meier's Civilization is a turn-based strategy computer game created by Sid Meier for MicroProse in 1991. The game's objective is to "... build an empire to stand the test of time". The game begins in 4000 BC, and the players attempt to expand and develop their empires through the ages until modern and near-future times. It is also known simply as Civilization, or abbreviated to Civ or Civ I.
Civilization: Civilization is the process of civilizing or becoming civil. A civilized society is often characterized by advanced agriculture, long-distance trade, occupational specialization, and urbanism. Aside from these core elements, civilization is often marked by any combination of a number of secondary elements, including a developed transportation system, writing, standards of measurement (currency, etc.
Charles Baxter author: Charles Baxter (born 13 May 1947 in Minneapolis) to John and Mary Barber (Eaton) Baxter. He is an American author known for blending a quiet, sometimes absurdist wit with a profound sympathy for his far-from-perfect characters; he has also attracted attention for the consummate brilliance of his prose. He is likewise celebrated as an engaging and even deeply moving performer of his own work in public readings.
Claude Debussy: Achille-Claude Debussy (August 22, 1862 - March 25, 1918) was a French composer. Along with Maurice Ravel, he was one of the most prominent figures working within the field of impressionist music, though he himself intensely disliked the term when applied to his compositions. Debussy is not only among the most important of all French composers but also a central figure in European music at the turn of the twentieth century. He was made Chevalier de la Lion d'honneur in 1903.
Ceres: Ceres commonly refers to: Ceres (dwarf planet), smallest of the five identified dwarf planets, originally classified as a planet, and later as the largest asteroid, Ceres (Roman mythology), the Roman goddess of agriculture
Charleston: Charleston often refers to: Charleston, South Carolina, a historic city in South Carolina Charleston, West Virginia, the state capital of West Virginia Charleston may also refer to:
Cultural imperialism: Cultural imperialism is the practice of promoting, distinguishing, separating, or artificially injecting the culture of one society into another. It is usually the case that the former belongs to a large, economically or militarily powerful nation and the latter belongs to a smaller, less important one. Cultural imperialism can take the form of an active, formal policy or a general attitude.
Casiquiare canal: The Casiquiare river is a distributary of the upper Orinoco, which flows southward into the Rio Negro. As such, it forms a unique natural canal between the Orinoco and Amazon river systems; it is the largest river on the planet that links two major river systems, a so-called bifurcation. The area forms a water divide, more dramatically at regional flood stage.
Capetian dynasty: The Capetian dynasty is the largest and oldest European royal house, consisting of the descendants of Hugh Capet of France in the male line. King Juan Carlos of Spain and Grand Duke Henri of Luxembourg are members of this family, both through the Bourbon branch of the dynasty.
Cuboctahedron: In geometry, a cuboctahedron is a polyhedron with eight triangular faces and six square faces. A cuboctahedron has 12 identical vertices, with two triangles and two squares meeting at each, and 24 identical edges, each separating a triangle from a square. As such it is a quasiregular polyhedron, i.e. an Archimedean solid, being vertex-transitive and edge-transitive. Its dual polyhedron is the rhombic dodecahedron.
Chemical reaction: A chemical reaction is a process that leads to the transformation of one set of chemical substances to another. Chemical reactions are studied by chemists under a field of science called chemistry. Chemical reactions can be either spontaneous, requiring no input of energy, or non-spontaneous, often coming about only after the input of some type of energy, viz. heat, light or electricity.
Class: Class may refer to:
Cube: In geometry, a cube is a three-dimensional solid object bounded by six square faces, facets or sides, with three meeting at each . The cube can also be called a regular hexahedron and is one of the five Platonic solids. It is a special kind of square prism, of rectangular parallelepiped and of trigonal trapezohedron. The cube is dual to the octahedron. It has cubical symmetry. A cube is the three-dimensional case of the more general concept of a hypercube. It has 11 nets.
Critical point: Critical point may refer to: Critical point (mathematics) Critical point (set theory) Critical point (thermodynamics)
Commuter rail: Suburban commuter railroad or commuter railway is a passenger rail transport service between a city center, and outer suburbs and commuter towns or other locations that draw large numbers of commuterspeople who travel on a daily basis. Trains operate following a schedule, at speeds varying from 50 to 200 km/h (30 to 125 mph). Distance charges or zone pricing may be used.
Cambridgeshire: Cambridgeshire (also known, archaically, as the County of Cambridge; abbreviated Cambs. ) is a county in England, bordering Lincolnshire to the north, Norfolk to the northeast, Suffolk to the east, Essex and Hertfordshire to the south, and Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire to the west. Modern Cambridgeshire was formed from the historic counties of Cambridgeshire and Huntingdonshire, together with the Isle of Ely and the Soke of Peterborough; it contains most of the region known as Silicon Fen.
Christian Goldbach: Christian Goldbach (March 18, 1690 - November 20, 1764) was a Prussian mathematician who also studied law. He is remembered today for Goldbach's conjecture.
Roman censor: The position of the censor (called censura) was responsible for maintaining the census, supervising public morality, and overseeing certain aspects of the government's finances. The censors' regulation of public morality is the origin of the modern meaning of the words "censor" and "censorship."
Convex set: In Euclidean space, an object is convex if for every pair of points within the object, every point on the straight line segment that joins them is also within the object. For example, a solid cube is convex, but anything that is hollow or has a dent in it, for example, a crescent shape, is not convex.
Cupola: In architecture, a cupola is a small, most-often dome-like structure, on top of a building. Often used to provide a lookout or to admit light and air, it usually crowns a larger roof or dome. The word derives, via Italian, from the lower Latin cupula (classical Latin cupella from the Greek kypellon) small cup (Latin cupa) indicating a vault resembling an upside down cup. Cupolas often appear as small buildings in their own right.
Chaos theory: Chaos theory is a field of study in mathematics, physics, and philosophy studying the behavior of dynamical systems that are highly sensitive to initial conditions. This sensitivity is popularly referred to as the butterfly effect. Small differences in initial conditions (such as those due to rounding errors in numerical computation) yield widely diverging outcomes for chaotic systems, rendering long-term prediction impossible in general.
Chupacabra: The Chupacabra or Chupacabras, also called El Chupacabras in Spanish, is a legendary cryptid rumored to inhabit parts of the Americas. It is associated more recently with sightings of an allegedly unknown animal in Puerto Rico (where these sightings were first reported), Mexico, and the United States, especially in the latter's Latin American communities. The name comes from the animal's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock, especially goats.
Cayuga Lake: Cayuga Lake is the longest of central New York's glacial Finger Lakes, and is the second largest in surface area (marginally smaller than Seneca Lake) and second largest in volume. It is just under 40 miles (64 km) long. Its average width is 1.7 miles (2.7 km), and it is 3.5 miles (5.6 km) wide at its widest point near Aurora. It is approximately 435 ft (133 m) deep at its deepest point.
Cell wall: A cell wall is a tough, usually flexible but sometimes fairly rigid layer that surrounds some types of cells. It is located outside the cell membrane and provides these cells with structural support and protection, and also acts as a filtering mechanism. A major function of the cell wall is to act as a pressure vessel, preventing over-expansion when water enters the cell. They are found in plants, bacteria, fungi, algae, and some archaea. Animals and protozoa do not have cell walls.
Columbia University: Columbia University in the City of New York (commonly known as Columbia University, or simply Columbia) is a private university in the United States and a member of the Ivy League. Columbia's main campus lies in the Morningside Heights neighborhood in the borough of Manhattan, in New York City. It was founded in 1754 as King's College by royal charter of George II of Great Britain, and is one of only two United States universities to have been founded under such authority.
Cairo: Cairo is the capital of Egypt and the largest city in North Africa and the Middle East as well as one of the most densely-populated cities in the world. Nicknamed "The City of a Thousand Minarets" for its preponderance of Islamic architecture, Cairo has long been a center of the region's political and cultural life.
Classical element: Many philosophies and worldviews have used a set of archetypal classical elements, most developed sets of the simplest essential parts and principles of which anything consists or upon which the constitution and fundamental powers of anything are based. There are several approaches, the most frequently occurring theories of classical elements are held by the Ancient systems of thought.
Fire classical element: Fire has been an important part of all cultures and religions, from pre-history to modern day, and was vital to the development of civilization. It has been regarded in many different fashions throughout history.
Air classical element: In traditional cultures, air is often seen as a universal power or pure substance. Its fundamental importance to life can be seen in words such as aspire, inspire, perspire, and spirit, all derived from the Latin spirare ("to breathe").
Water classical element: Water has been important to all peoples of the earth, and it is rich in spiritual tradition.
Earth classical element: Earth, home and origin of humanity, has often been worshipped in its own right with its own unique spiritual tradition.
Collective trauma: A collective trauma is a traumatic psychological effect shared by a group of people of any size, up to and including an entire society. Traumatic events witnessed by an entire society can stir up collective sentiment, often resulting in a shift in that society's culture and mass actions. Well known collective traumas include: The John F. Kennedy assassination in the United States, the Estonia disaster in Sweden, the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States and various others.
Blue Jam: Blue Jam was an ambient radio comedy programme created and directed by Chris Morris. It aired on BBC Radio 1 in the early hours of the morning from 1997 to 1999. The programme gained cult status due to its unique mix of surreal monologue, music, synthesised voices, heavily edited broadcasts and recurring sketches. It featured the vocal talents of Kevin Eldon, Julia Davis, Mark Heap, David Cann and Amelia Bullmore.
Channel 4: Channel 4 is a UK public-service television broadcaster which began working on 2 November 1982. Although commercially self-funded, it is ultimately publicly owned; originally a subsidiary of the Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA), the station is now owned and operated by the Channel Four Television Corporation, a public body established in 1990, coming into operation in 1993.
Carolina Parakeet: The Carolina Parakeet (Conuropsis carolinensis) was the only parrot species native to the eastern United States. It was found from the Ohio Valley to the Gulf of Mexico, and lived in old forests along rivers. It was the only species at the time classified in the genus Conuropsis. It was called puzzi la n ("head of yellow") or pot pot chee by the Seminole and kelinky in Chikasha (Snyder & Russell, 2002).
Church building: A church building is a building or structure whose primary purpose is to facilitate the meeting of a church. Originally, Jewish Christians met in synagogues, such as the Cenacle, and in one another's homes. As Christianity grew and became more accepted by governments, rooms and, eventually, entire buildings were set aside for the explicit purpose of Christian worship. Traditional church buildings are often in the shape of a cross and frequently have a tower or dome.
Cognate: Cognates in linguistics are words that have a common etymological origin. An example of cognates within the same language would be English shirt and skirt, the former from Old Englishcyrte, the latter loaned from Old Norse skyrta, both from the same Common Germanic *skurtjn-. Words with this type of relationship within a single language are called doublets. Further cognates of the same word in other Germanic languages would include German Schrze and Dutch schort "apron".
Chromatography: Chromatography is the collective term for a set of laboratory techniques for the separation of mixtures. It involves passing a mixture dissolved in a "mobile phase" through a stationary phase, which separates the analyte to be measured from other molecules in the mixture based on differential partitioning between the mobile and stationary phases. Subtle differences in compounds partition coefficient results in differential retention on the stationary phase and thus changing the separation.
Clement Martyn Doke: Clement Martyn Doke was a South African linguist working mainly on African languages. Realizing that the grammatical structures of Bantu languages are quite different from those of European languages, he was one of the first African linguists of his time to abandon the Euro-centric approach to language description for a more locally grounded one. A most prolific writer, he published a string of grammars, several dictionaries, comparative work, and a history of Bantu linguistics.
Cucurbitaceae: Cucurbitaceae is a plant family commonly known as melons, gourds or cucurbits and includes crops like cucumbers, squashes, luffas, melons and watermelons. The family is predominantly distributed around the tropics, where those with edible fruits were amongst the earliest cultivated plants in both the Old and New Worlds. Most of the plants in this family are annual vines but there are also woody lianas, thorny shrubs, and trees. Many species have large, yellow or white flowers.
Carl Meinhof: Carl Friedrich Michael Meinhof (July 23, 1857 - February 11, 1944) was a German linguist and one of the first linguists to study African languages.
Chorded keyboard: A keyset or chorded keyboard (also called a chorded keyset, chord keyboard or chording keyboard) is a computer input device that allows the user to enter characters or commands formed by pressing several keys together, like playing a "chord" on a piano. The large number of combinations available from a small number of keys allows text or commands to be entered with one hand, leaving the other hand free.
Childe's Tomb: Childe's Tomb is located on the south-east edge of Foxtor Mires, c.500 metres north of Fox Tor on Dartmoor, in the United Kingdom at grid reference SX625704. It is approximately 3 feet 4 inches (1 m) tall and 1 foot 8 inches (0.5 m) at the crosspiece. Legend has it that the cross was erected over the kistvaen (burial chamber) of Childe the Hunter. The cross has its base in a socket stone, resting on granite blocks over the chamber.
Cell biology: Cell biology (formerly cytology, from the Greek kytos, "container") is an academic discipline that studies cells - their physiological properties, their structure, the organelles they contain, interactions with their environment, their life cycle, division and death. This is done both on a microscopic and molecular level.
Carolyn Beug: Carolyn Ann Mayer-Beug (December 11,1953-September 11, 2001) was a filmmaker and video producer from Santa Monica, California. She was killed at the age of 48 in the crash of American Airlines Flight 11 in the September 11, 2001 attacks. She won an award for the Van Halen music video to their song "Right Now," which she produced. At the time of her death, Carolyn Beug was working on a children's book about Noah's Ark which was to be told from Noah's wife's point of view.
Canadian English: Canadian English (CanE, en-CA) is the variety of English used in Canada. Approximately 17 million (58%) speak English as their native language and more than 26 million Canadians (85% of the population) have some knowledge of it. Outside Quebec, 76% of Canadians speak English natively and in Quebec - 8%. Canadian English contains elements of British English in its vocabulary, as well as several distinctive Canadianisms.
Czech language: Czech is a West Slavic language with about 12 million native speakers; it is the majority language in the Czech Republic and spoken by Czechs worldwide. The language was known as Bohemian until the late 19th century in English. Czech is similar to and mutually intelligible with Slovak and, to a lesser extent, to Polish and Sorbian.
Chloramphenicol: Chloramphenicol is a bacteriostatic antimicrobial. It is considered a prototypical broad-spectrum antibiotic, alongside the tetracyclines. Chloramphenicol is effective against a wide variety of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, including most anaerobic organisms.
Capsid: For the leaf bug, see Miridae. A capsid is the protein shell of a virus. It consists of several oligomeric structural subunits made of protein called protomers. The observable 3-dimensional morphological subunits, which may or may not correspond to individual proteins, are called capsomeres. The capsid encloses the genetic material of the virus. Capsids are broadly classified according to their structure. The majority of viruses have capsids with either helical or icosahedral structure.
Cretinism: Cretinism is a condition of severely stunted physical and mental growth due to untreated congenital deficiency of thyroid hormones due to maternal nutritional deficiency of iodine.
Cut-up technique: The cut-up technique (also called fishbowling or doupage) is an aleatory literary technique or genre in which a text (or multiple texts) is cut up into smaller portions at random, and rearranged to create a new text. Most commonly, cut ups are used to offer a non-linear alternative to traditional reading and writing. The concept can be traced to at least the surrealists in the 1920s, but was popularized in the late 1950s and early 1960s by writer William S.
Council of Trent: The Council of Trent was the 16th-century Ecumenical Council of the Roman Catholic Church. It is considered to be one of the Church's most important councils. It convened in Trento (then capital of the Prince-Bishopric of Trent, inside the Holy Roman Empire, now in modern Italy) between December 13, 1545, and December 4, 1563 in twenty-five sessions for three periods.
Chloroplast: Chloroplasts are organelles found in plant cells and other eukaryotic organisms that conduct photosynthesis. Chloroplasts capture light energy to conserve free energy in the form of ATP and reduce NADP to NADPH through a complex set of processes called photosynthesis. The word chloroplast is derived from the Greek words chloros, which means green, and plast, which means form or entity. Chloroplasts are members of a class of organelles known as plastids.
Camp David: Naval Support Facility Thurmont, popularly known as Camp David, is a mountain-based military camp in Frederick County, Maryland used as a country retreat of the President of the United States and his guests. First known as Hi-Catoctin, Camp David was originally built as a camp for federal government agents and their families, by the WPA, starting in 1935, opening in 1938. In 1942 it was converted to a presidential retreat by President Franklin D. Roosevelt and renamed U.S.S. Shangri-La.
Crux: Crux is the smallest of the 88 modern constellations, but is one of the most distinctive. Its name is Latin for cross, and it is dominated by a cross-shaped asterism that is commonly known as the Southern Cross.
Cassiopeia: Cassiopeia can refer to:
Cetus: Cetus is a constellation in the northern sky. Its name refers to Cetus, a sea monster in Greek mythology, although it is often called 'the whale' today. Cetus is located in the region of the sky known as the Water, along with other watery constellations such as Aquarius, Pisces, and Eridanus.
Carina constellation: Carina is a constellation in the southern sky. Its name is Latin for the keel of a ship, and it was formerly part of the larger constellation of Argo Navis (the ship Argo) until that constellation was divided in three.
Camelopardalis: Camelopardalis, from Greek (Greeks thought that it had the head of a camel and the spots of a leopard), is a large but faint constellation in the northern sky. Its name is Latin for giraffe. The constellation was first described by Jakob Bartsch in 1624, but was created earlier by Petrus Plancius. In older astronomy books, one will sometimes see an alternative spelling of the name as Camelopardus.
Canis Minor: Canis Minor is a small constellation. It was included in the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy's 48 constellations, and is still included among the 88 modern constellations. Its name is Latin for "smaller dog" in contrast to Canis Major, the larger dog, and it is commonly represented as one of the dogs following the constellation of Orion the hunter.
Canis Major: Canis Major is a constellation, included in the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy's 48 constellations, and still included among the 88 modern constellations. Its name is Latin for 'greater dog', and is commonly represented as one of the dogs following Orion the hunter (see also Canis Minor the 'lesser dog').
Convention of Kanagawa: On March 31, 1854, the Convention of Kanagawa (, Nichibei Washin Jyaku, "America-Japan Treaty of Amity and Friendship") or Kanagawa Treaty was concluded between Commodore Matthew C. Perry of the U.S. Navy and the Tokugawa shogunate. The treaty opened the Japanese ports of Shimoda and Hakodate to United States trade, guaranteed the safety of shipwrecked U.S. sailors; however, the treaty did not create a basis for establishing a permanent residence in these locations.
Centaurus: Centaurus is a bright constellation in the southern sky. One of the largest constellations in the sky, Centaurus was included among the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and it remains one of the 88 modern constellations.
Corona Borealis: Corona Borealis is a small constellation in the northern sky. Its name is Latin for "northern crown", a name inspired by its shape; its main stars form a semicircular arc. It was one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy and remains one of the 88 modern constellations.
Cygnus constellation: Cygnus is a northern constellation. Its name is the Latinized Hellenic word for swan. One of the most recognizable constellations of the northern summer and autumn, it features a prominent asterism known as the Northern Cross (in contrast to the Southern Cross). Cygnus was among the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and it remains one of the 88 modern constellations.
Impact crater: In the broadest sense, the term impact crater can be applied to any depression, natural or manmade, resulting from the high velocity impact of a projectile with a larger body. In most common usage, the term is used for the approximately circular depression in the surface of a planet, moon or other solid body in the Solar System, formed by the hyper-velocity impact of a smaller body with the surface. This is in contrast to the pit crater which results from an internal collapse.
Corona Australis: Corona Australis or Corona Austrina is a constellation. Its name means "southern crown", and it contrasts with Corona Borealis, the northern crown. Corona Australis was one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and it remains one of the 88 modern constellations.
Communion: Communion is a polyvalent term. Though not Christian-specific, the term "communion" has several denotations within the Christian traditions.
Corcovado: Corcovado, meaning "hunchback" in Portuguese, is a mountain in central Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The 710-metre (2,329 ft) granite peak is located in the Tijuca Forest, a national park. Corcovado hill lies just west of the city center but is wholly within the city limits and visible from great distances. It is known worldwide for the 38-meter (125 ft) statue of Jesus atop its peak, entitled Cristo Redentor or "Christ the Redeemer".
Calorie: The calorie is a pre-SI metric unit of energy. The unit was first defined by Professor Nicolas Clent in 1824 as a unit of heat. This definition entered French and English dictionaries between 1841 and 1867. In most fields its use is archaic, having been replaced by the SI unit of energy, the joule. However, in many countries it remains in common use as a unit of food energy. The kilocalorie per mole remains in use in computational chemistry and molecular spectroscopy.
Caelum: Caelum is a faint constellation in the southern sky, introduced in the eighteenth century by Nicolas Louis de Lacaille. Its name means "the chisel" in Latin, and it was formerly known as Ca Sculptoris, "the sculptor's chisel". It is the eighth smallest constellation, with an area just less than that of Corona Australis.
Cheddar: Cheddar is a large village and civil parish in the district of Sedgemoor in the English county of Somerset. It is situated on the southern edge of the Mendip Hills, 9 miles (14 km) north-west of Wells. The civil parish includes the hamlets of Nyland and Bradley Cross. Cheddar Gorge is the largest gorge in the United Kingdom and includes several show caves. It has been the setting for a major centre of human settlement since Neolithic times, including a Saxon palace.
Compact Disc: A Compact Disc (also known as a CD) is an optical disc used to store digital data. It was originally developed to store sound recordings exclusively, but later it also allowed the preservation of other types of data. Audio CDs have been commercially available since October 1982. In 2010, they remain the standard physical storage medium for audio. Standard CDs have a diameter of 120 mm and can hold up to 80 minutes of uncompressed audio (700 MB of data).
Charles Farrar Browne: See also Artemas Ward Charles Farrar Browne (April 26, 1834 - March 6, 1867) was a United States humor writer, better known under his nom de plume, Artemus Ward. At birth, his surname was "Brown. " He added the "e" after he became famous. Browne was born in Waterford, Maine. He began life as a compositor and occasional contributor to the daily and weekly journals.
Canes Venatici: Canes Venatici is a small northern constellation that was created by Johannes Hevelius in the 17th century. Its name is Latin for hunting dogs and it represents the mythological dogs Chara and Asterion being held on a leash by Boes the herdsman, a neighboring constellation.
Chamaeleon: Chamaeleon is a small constellation in the southern sky. It is named after the chameleon, a form of lizard. It was first defined in the sixteenth century. In Australia it is sometimes unofficially called "the Frying Pan" when finding the south by the stars.
Cholesterol: Cholesterol is a waxy steroid metabolite found in the cell membranes and transported in the blood plasma of all animals. It is an essential structural component of mammalian cell membranes, where it is required to establish proper membrane permeability and fluidity. In addition, cholesterol is an important component for the manufacture of bile acids, steroid hormones, and several fat-soluble vitamins.
Clarinet: The clarinet is a musical instrument in the woodwind family. The name derives from adding the suffix -et (meaning little) to the Italian word clarino (meaning a type of trumpet), as the first clarinets had a strident tone similar to that of a trumpet. The instrument has an approximately cylindrical bore, and uses a single reed. Clarinets comprise a family of instruments of differing sizes and pitches.
Chromosome: A chromosome is an organized structure of DNA and protein that is found in cells. It is a single piece of coiled DNA containing many genes, regulatory elements and other nucleotide sequences. Chromosomes also contain DNA-bound proteins, which serve to package the DNA and control its functions. The word chromosome comes from the Greek (chroma, color) and (soma, body) due to their property of being very strongly stained by particular dyes.
Charge: Charge or charged may refer to:
Colonna family: The Colonna family was a powerful noble family in medieval and Renaissance Rome, supplying one Pope and many other leaders. Their family is notable for their bitter feud with the Orsini family over influence in Rome until it was stopped by Papal Bull in 1511; in 1571 the Chiefs of both families married the nieces of Pope Sixtus V.
Cleopatra disambiguation: Cleopatra may refer to:
Camouflage: Camouflage is a method of crypsis - avoidance of observation - that allows an otherwise visible organism or object to remain indiscernible from the surrounding environment through deception. Examples include a tiger's stripes and the battledress of a modern soldier. The theory of camouflage covers the various strategies which are used to achieve this effect.
Carcinogen: A carcinogen is any substance, radionuclide or radiation, that is an agent directly involved in the exacerbation of cancer or in the increase of its propagation. This may be due to the ability to damage the genome or to the disruption of cellular metabolic processes. Several radioactive substances are considered carcinogens, but their carcinogenic activity is attributed to the radiation, for example gamma rays and alpha particles, which they emit.
Chojn w: Chojn is a small town (14,389 inhabitants as of 2006) on the Skora river, in Legnica County,, in south-western Poland. Its average altitude is 170 meters above sea level. It is the administrative seat of the rural gmina called Gmina Chojn, although the town is not part of its territory (Chojn forms a separate urban gmina). The first reference to Chojn is dated 1272 (as Haynow settlement).
Ceuta: Ceuta is an autonomous city of Spain located on the North African side of the Strait of Gibraltar, on the Mediterranean, which separates it from the Spanish mainland. The area of Ceuta is approximately 19 square kilometres (7.3 sq mi). Ceuta is dominated by a hill called Monte Hacho, on which there is a fort used by the Spanish army. Monte Hacho is one of the possible locations for the southern of the Pillars of Hercules of Greek legend, the other possibility being Jebel Musa.
Charles Martel: Charles Martel (ca. 688 - 22 October 741), called Charles the Hammer, was a Frankish military and political leader, who served as Mayor of the Palace under the Merovingian kings and ruled de facto during an interregnum (737-43) at the end of his life, using the title Duke and Prince of the Franks. In 739 he was offered the title of Consul by the Pope, but he refused.
Charles Proteus Steinmetz: Charles Proteus Steinmetz (April 9, 1865 - October 26, 1923) was a German-American mathematician and electrical engineer. He fostered the development of alternating current that made possible the expansion of the electric power industry in the United States, formulating mathematical theories for engineers. He made ground-breaking discoveries in the understanding of hysteresis that enabled engineers to design better electric motors for use in industry.
Clock: A clock is an instrument used to indicate, measure, keep, and co-ordinate time. The word clock is derived ultimately from the Celtic words clagan and clocca meaning "bell". For horologists and other specialists the term clock continues to mean exclusively a device with a striking mechanism for announcing intervals of time acoustically, by ringing a bell, a set of chimes, or a gong. A silent instrument lacking such a mechanism has traditionally been known as a timepiece.
Ceramic: A ceramic is an inorganic, non-metallic solid prepared by the action of heat and subsequent cooling. Ceramic materials may have a crystalline or partly crystalline structure, or may be amorphous. Because most common ceramics are crystalline, the definition of ceramic is often restricted to inorganic crystalline materials, as opposed to the non-crystalline glasses. The earliest ceramics were pottery objects made from clay, either by itself or mixed with other materials.
Church of Christ Scientist: The Church of Christ, Scientist was founded in 1879 in Boston, Massachusetts, USA, by Mary Baker Eddy. She was the author of the book Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures. Christian Science teaches that the "allness" of God denies the reality of sin, sickness, death, and the material world. Accounts of healing through prayer are common within the church and adherents traditionally refuse medical treatment.
Charles Edward Jones: Colonel Charles Edward ("Chuck") Jones (November 4, 1952 - September 11, 2001) was a United States Air Force officer, a computer programmer, and an astronaut in the USAF Manned Spaceflight Engineer Program.
Wu Xing: The Wu Xing, or the Five Movements, Five Phases or Five Steps/Stages, are chiefly an ancient mnemonic device, in many traditional Chinese fields. It is sometimes translated as Five Elements, but the Wu Xing are chiefly an ancient mnemonic device, hence the preferred translation of "movements", "phases" or "steps" over "elements". By the same token, Mu is thought of as "Tree" rather than "Wood".
Country Liberal Party: The Northern Territory Country Liberal Party (CLP) is a Northern Territory political party affiliated with both the Liberal and National parties. It is a member of the Coalition. The CLP dominated the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly from its establishment in 1978 to 2001, but lost Government in 2001 and was reduced to four parliamentary members in 2005.
Canon law: Canon law is the body of laws and regulations made by or adopted by ecclesiastical authority, for the government of the Christian organization and its members. It is the internal ecclesiastical law governing the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern and Oriental Orthodox churches, and the Anglican Communion of churches. The way that such church law is legislated, interpreted and at times adjudicated varies widely among these three bodies of churches.
Columbanus: Saint Columbanus was an Irish missionary notable for founding a number of monasteries on the European continent from around 590 in the Frankish and Italian kingdoms, most notably Luxeuil (in present-day France) and Bobbio (Italy), and stands as an exemplar of Irish missionary activity in early medieval Europe.
Connecticut: Connecticut is a state in the New England region of the northeastern United States. It is bordered by Rhode Island to the east, Massachusetts to the north, and New York to the west and south (because various islands of New York span Connecticut's entire coast).
Concord New Hampshire: The city of Concord is the capital of the state of New Hampshire in the United States. It is also the county seat of Merrimack County. As of the 2000 census, its population was 40,765, with an estimated 2008 population of 42,255. Concord includes the villages of Penacook, East Concord and West Concord. The city is home to the Franklin Pierce Law Center, New Hampshire's only law school; St.
Clean Air Act 1970: The Clean Air Act Extension of 1970 (84 Stat. 1676, Public Law 91-604) is a United States federal law that requires the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to develop and enforce regulations to protect the general public from exposure to airborne contaminants that are known to be hazardous to human health. This law is an amendment to the Clean Air Act (CAA) originally passed in 1963.
Coercion: Coercion is the practice of forcing another party to behave in an involuntary manner (whether through action or inaction) by use of threats, intimidation, trickery, or some other form of pressure or force. Such actions are used as leverage, to force the victim to act in the desired way. Coercion may involve the actual infliction of physical pain/injury or psychological harm in order to enhance the credibility of a threat.
Chlorophyceae: The Chlorophyceae are one of the classes of green algae, distinguished mainly on the basis of ultrastructural morphology. For example the chlorophycean CW clade, and chlorophycean DO clade, are defined by the arrangement of their flagella. Members of the CW clade have flagella that are displaced in a "clockwise" (CW, 1-7 o'clock) direction eg. Chlamydomonadales. Members of the DO clade have flagella that are "directly opposed" (DO, 12-6 o'clock) eg. Sphaeropleales.
Client-server: Client-server computing or networking is a distributed application architecture that partitions tasks or work loads between service providers and service requesters, called clients. Often clients and servers operate over a computer network on separate hardware. A server machine is a high-performance host that is running one or more server programs which share its resources with clients. A client does not share any of its resources, but requests a server's content or service function.
Cosmological argument: The cosmological argument is an argument for the existence of a First Cause (or instead, an Uncaused cause) to the universe, and by extension is often used as an argument for the existence of an "unconditioned" or "supreme" being, usually then identified as God. It is traditionally known as an argument from universal causation, an argument from first cause, the causal argument or the argument from existence.
Clutch: A clutch is a mechanism for transmitting rotation, which can be engaged and disengaged. Clutches are useful in devices that have two rotating shafts. In these devices, one shaft is typically driven by a motor or pulley, and the other shaft drives another device. In a drill, for instance, one shaft is driven by a motor, and the other drives a drill chuck.
Cow tipping: Cow tipping or cow pushing is the activity of sneaking up on a sleeping, upright cow and pushing it over for fun. As cows do not sleep standing up, cow tipping is a myth.
County Dublin: County Dublin, or more correctly today the Dublin Region, is the area that contains the city of Dublin, the capital of Ireland as well as the largest city on the island of Ireland; and the modern counties of Dun Laoghaire-Rathdown, Fingal and South Dublin. The Dublin Regional Authority is the regional authority for the region. Dublin was one of the oldest of the Counties of Ireland to be formally structured, in the late 1100's by King John of England.
Cassandra: In Greek mythology, Cassandra was the daughter of King Priam and Queen Hecuba of Troy. Her beauty caused Apollo to grant her the gift of prophecy. In an alternative version, she spent a night at Apollo's temple, at which time the temple snakes licked her ears clean so that she was able to hear the future. This is a recurring theme in Greek mythology, though sometimes it brings an ability to understand the language of animals rather than an ability to know the future.
Couplet: A couplet is a pair of lines of verse. It usually consists of two lines that rhyme and have the same meter. While traditionally couplets rhyme, not all do. A poem may use white space to mark out couplets if they do not rhyme. Couplets with a meter of iambic pentameter are called heroic couplets. The Poetic epigram is also in the couplet form. Couplets can also appear in more complex rhyme schemes. For example, Shakespearean sonnets end with a couplet.
Charles Williams British writer: Charles Walter Stansby Williams (20 September 1886 - 15 May 1945) was a British poet, novelist, theologian, literary critic, and a member of the Inklings.
Celery: Apium graveolens is a plant species in the family Apiaceae commonly known as celery (var. dulce) or celeriac (var. rapaceum) depending on whether the petioles (stalks) or roots are eaten.
Charlotte Bront: Charlotte Bront (21 April 1816 - 31 March 1855) was an English novelist, the eldest of the three Bront sisters whose novels are English literature standards. Under the pen name Currer Bell, she wrote Jane Eyre.
Celestines: Celestines are a Roman Catholic monastic order, a branch of the Benedictines, founded in 1244. At the foundation of the new rule, they were called Hermits of St Damiano, or Moronites (or Murronites), and did not assume the appellation of Celestines until after the election of their founder to the Papacy as Celestine V.
CPM: CPM is frequently used in advertising to represent cost per mille (thousand). When used in online advertising it relates to the Cost per (thousand) impressions.
Cessna: The Cessna Aircraft Company is an airplane manufacturing corporation headquartered in Wichita, Kansas, USA. Their main products are general aviation aircraft. Although they are the most well-known for their small, piston-powered aircraft, they also produce business jets. The company is a subsidiary of the U.S. conglomerate Textron.
Carnivore: A carnivore, meaning 'meat eater' (Latin carne meaning 'flesh' and vorare meaning 'to devour'), is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging. Animals that depend solely on animal flesh for their nutrient requirements are considered carnivores while those that also consume non-animal food are considered carnivores.
Celts: Celts (see names of the Celts; the most common academic usage is with a velar "c", pronounced as "k") is a modern term used to describe any of the European peoples who spoke, or speak, a Celtic language. The term is also used in a wider sense to describe the modern descendants of those peoples, notably those who participate in a Celtic culture. The historical Celts were a diverse group of tribal societies in Iron Age Europe.
Czes aw Mi osz: Czesaw Miosz (June 30, 1911 - August 14, 2004) was a Lithuanian born Polish poet, prose writer and translator. His World War II-era masterpiece, The World, is a sequence of 20 "naive" poems. Defecting to the West in 1951, his non-fiction The Captive Mind (1953) is one of the classics of anti-Stalinism. From 1961 to 1998 he was a professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures at the University of California, Berkeley. In 1980 he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature.
Claude Monet: Claude Monet, born Oscar Claude Monet (14 November 1840 - 5 December 1926) was a founder of French impressionist painting, and the most consistent and prolific practitioner of the movement's philosophy of expressing one's perceptions before nature, especially as applied to plein-air landscape painting. The term Impressionism is derived from the title of his painting Impression, Sunrise (Impression, soleil levant).
Conectiva: Conectiva was a company founded on August 28, 1995, in Curitiba, Paran, Brazil, by a group of friends, among them Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo, who was a pioneer in the distribution of Linux and open source software in Brazilian Portuguese, Spanish and English for all of Latin America.
Control unit: A control unit in general is a central (or sometimes distributed but clearly distinguishable) part of whatsoever machinery that controls its operation, provided that a piece of machinery is complex and organized enough to contain any such unit. One domain in which the term is specifically used is the area of computer design. In the automotive industry, the control unit helps maintain various functions of the motor vehicle.
Carthage: Carthage refers to a series of cities on the Gulf of Tunis, from a Phoenician colony of the 1st millennium BCE to the current suburb outside Tunis, Tunisia. The first civilization that developed within the city's sphere of influence is referred to as Punic (a form of the word "Phoenician") or Carthaginian. The city of Carthage is located on the eastern side of Lake Tunis across from the centre of Tunis.
Coprime: In mathematics, two integers a and b are said to be coprime or relatively prime if they have no common positive factor other than 1 or, equivalently, if their greatest common divisor is 1. The notation a b is sometimes used to indicate that a and b are relatively prime. For example, 6 and 35 are coprime, but 6 and 27 are not coprime because they are both divisible by 3. The number 1 is coprime to every integer.
Columba: Saint Columba (7 December 521 - 9 June 597 AD), also known as Colum Cille (meaning "Dove of the church") was an outstanding figure among the Gaelic Irish missionary monks who, some of his advocates claim, introduced Christianity to the Picts during the Early Medieval Period. He was one of the Twelve Apostles of Ireland.
Cello: The cello is a bowed string instrument. The word derives from the Italian violoncello. A person who plays a cello is called a cellist. The cello is used as a solo instrument, in chamber music, and as a member of the string section of an orchestra. It is the second largest bowed string instrument in the modern symphony orchestra, the double bass being the largest.
Conditional proof: A conditional proof is a proof that takes the form of asserting a conditional, and proving that the antecedent of the conditional necessarily leads to the consequent. The assumed antecedent of a conditional proof is called the conditional proof assumption (CFA). Thus, the goal of a conditional proof is to demonstrate that if the CFA were true, then the desired conclusion necessarily follows.
Control store: A control store is the part of a CPUs control unit that stores the CPU's microprogram. It is usually accessed by a microsequencer. A control store is usually implemented as a diode-array of read-only memory. This tradition dates back to the program timing matrix on the MIT Whirlwind, first described in 1947. Modern VLSI CPUs also use a diode matrix for the read-only control store.
Charles McCarry: Charles McCarry (born 1930 Massachusetts, USA) is an American writer primarily of spy fiction.
Conjunction introduction: Conjunction introduction is the inference that, if p is true, and q is true, then the conjunction p and q is true. For example, if it's true that it's raining, and it's true that I'm inside, then it's true that it's raining, and I'm inside. Formally:
English in the Commonwealth of Nations: The use of the English language in most member countries of the Commonwealth of Nations was inherited from British colonisation. English is spoken as a first or second language in most of the Commonwealth. In a few countries, such as Cyprus and Malaysia, it does not have official status, but is widely used as a lingua franca. Mozambique is an exception - although English is widely spoken there, it is a former Portuguese colony which joined the Commonwealth in 1996.
Cimbri: The Cimbri were a tribe from Northern Europe, who, together with the Teutones and the Ambrones threatened the Roman Republic in the late 2nd century BC. The Cimbri were probably Germanic, though some believe them to be of Celtic origin. The ancient sources located their original home in Jutland, in present-day Denmark, which was referred to as the Cimbrian peninsula throughout antiquity .
Cleveland Browns: The Cleveland Browns are an American football team based in Cleveland, Ohio. They play in the AFC North division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The team began play in 1946 as a charter member of the All-America Football Conference (AAFC) and joined the NFL in 1950 after the AAFC folded. Cleveland has won a total of eight league championships.
Chinese cuisine: Chinese cuisine is a term for styles of food originating in the regions of China, many of which have become widespread and popular in other parts of the world from Asia to the Americas, Australia, Western Europe and Southern Africa. Where there are historical immigrant Chinese populations, the style of food has evolved - for example, American Chinese cuisine and Indian Chinese cuisine are prominent examples of Chinese cuisine that has been adapted to suit local palates.
Carbine: A carbine (from Middle French carabin) is a firearm similar to a rifle or musket. Many carbines, especially modern designs, were developed from rifles, being essentially shortened versions of full rifles firing the same ammunition, although often at a lower velocity.
Constantin Br ncu i: Constantin Brcui (February 19, 1876 - March 16, 1957) was an internationally renowned Romanian sculptor whose works, which blend simplicity and sophistication, led the way for numerous modernist sculptors.
Claus Sluter: Claus Sluter (born 1340s in Haarlem; died in 1405 or 1406, Dijon) was a sculptor of Dutch origin. He was the most important northern European sculptor of his age and is considered a pioneer of the "northern realism" of the Early Netherlandish painting that came into full flower with the work of Jan van Eyck and others in the next generation.
Cruise missile: A cruise missile is a guided missile that carries an explosive payload and uses a lifting wing and a propulsion system, usually a jet engine, to allow sustained flight; it is essentially a flying bomb. Cruise missiles are generally designed to carry a large conventional or nuclear warhead many hundreds of kilometers with high accuracy.
Cadillac Michigan: Cadillac is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan and is the county seat of Wexford County. As of the 2000 census, the city population was 10,000. The city is situated at the junction of US 131, M-55 and M-115. Approximately five miles north-northwest of Cadillac lies the geographic center of Michigan. Cadillac became the county seat after the so-called "Battle of Manton," in which a show of force was involved in enforcing a controversial decision to move the county seat from Manton, Michigan.
COINTELPRO: COINTELPRO (an acronym for Counter Intelligence Program) was a series of covert, and often illegal, projects conducted by the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) aimed at investigating and disrupting dissident political organizations within the United States. The FBI used covert operations from its inception, however formal COINTELPRO operations took place between 1956 and 1971.
Crete: Crete is the largest of the Greek islands and the fifth largest island in the Mediterranean Sea at 8,336 km (3,219 square miles). Crete is one of the 13 peripheries of Greece and covers the same area as the Greek region of Crete from before the 1987 administrative reform. It forms a significant part of the economy and cultural heritage of Greece; while it retains its own local cultural traits, Cretans identify themselves as Greeks. Heraklion is the largest city and capital of Crete.
Curry: Curry is a generic description used throughout European and American culture to describe a general variety of spiced dishes, best known in South Asian cuisines, especially Indian cuisine. Curry is a generic term and although there is no one specific attribute that marks a dish as "curry", some distinctive spices used in many curry dishes include turmeric, cumin, coriander, fenugreek, and red pepper.
Cyclades: The Cyclades are a Greek island group in the Aegean Sea, south-east of the mainland of Greece; and an administrative prefecture of Greece. They are one of the island groups which constitute the Aegean archipelago. The name refers to the islands around () the sacred island of Delos. The Cyclades is where the native Greek breed of cat first came from.
Computer vision: Computer vision is the science and technology of machines that see. As a scientific discipline, computer vision is concerned with the theory behind artificial systems that extract information from images. The image data can take many forms, such as video sequences, views from multiple cameras, or multi-dimensional data from a medical scanner. As a technological discipline, computer vision seeks to apply its theories and models to the construction of computer vision systems.
Chaldea: Chaldea or Chaldaea, "the Chaldeans" of the KJV Old Testament, was a marshy land located in Southern Iraq and Kuwait which came to rule Babylon. Tribes of settlers who arrived in the region in 625-539 B.C.E. became known as the Chaldeans. Quite where they originally came from is unknown. The 11th dynasty of the Kings of Babylon (6th century BC) is conventionally known to historians as the Chaldean Dynasty.
Case: Case may refer to:
Cyrus: Cyrus (in modern Persian, - Kurosh - and in Greek, Kyros) is a common Persian given name. For the etymology, see Cyrus (name).
Currying: In mathematics and computer science, currying or Schfinkelisation, invented by Moses Schfinkel and later re-invented by Haskell Curry, is the technique of transforming a function that takes multiple arguments (or an n-tuple of arguments) in such a way that it can be called as a chain of functions each with a single argument. Uncurrying is the dual transformation to currying, and can be seen as a form of defunctionalization.
Chaosium: Chaosium is one of the longer lived publishers of role-playing games still in existence. Founded by Greg Stafford, its first game was actually a wargame, White Bear and Red Moon, which later mutated into Dragon Pass and its sequel, Nomad Gods. White Bear and Red Moon is notable for containing the first published material about Glorantha, later used as the primary setting for the role-playing games RuneQuest, Hero Wars and HeroQuest.
Rendering computer graphics: Rendering is the process of generating an image from a model, by means of computer programs. The model is a description of three-dimensional objects in a strictly defined language or data structure. It would contain geometry, viewpoint, texture, lighting, and shading information. The image is a digital image or raster graphics image. The term may be by analogy with an "artist's rendering" of a scene.
Camel: A camel is an even-toed ungulate within the genus Camelus, bearing distinctive fatty deposits known as humps on its back. There are two species of camels: the dromedary or Arabian camel has a single hump, and the Bactrian camel has two humps. They are native to the dry desert areas of West Asia, and Central and East Asia, respectively. Both species are domesticated to provide milk and meat, and as beasts of burden.
Ciconiiformes: Traditionally, the order Ciconiiformes has included a variety of large, long-legged wading birds with large bills: storks, herons, egrets, ibises, spoonbills, and several others. Ciconiiformes are known from the Late Eocene. At present the only family retained in the order is the storks, Ciconiidae.
Carolina Panthers: The Carolina Panthers are a Professional American football team based in Charlotte, North Carolina, representing North Carolina and South Carolina in the National Football League. They are currently members of the South Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Panthers, along with the Jacksonville Jaguars, joined the NFL as expansion teams in 1995.
Cincinnati Bengals: The Cincinnati Bengals are a professional football team based in Cincinnati, Ohio. They are currently members of the North Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). Their first two seasons, 1968 and 1969, were as an American Football League franchise. They joined the NFL as part of the 1970 AFL-NFL Merger, which had actually been agreed upon in 1966. The Bengals are the current AFC North Division Champions.
Chicago Bears: The Chicago Bears are a professional American football team based in Chicago, Illinois. They are members of the NFC North Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The team is legally and corporately registered as Chicago Bears Football Club, Incorporated. The Bears have won nine professional American football league championships. The Bears have the most enshrinees in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, with 26 members.
Cornwall Wildlife Trust: The Cornwall Wildlife Trust is a charitable organisation founded in 1962 that is concerned solely with Cornwall, United Kingdom. It deals with the conservation and preservation of Cornwall's wildlife and habitats managing over 50 nature reserves covering approximately 4300 acres (17 km), amongst them Looe Island. Cornwall Wildlife Trust is part of The Wildlife Trusts partnership of 47 wildlife trusts in the United Kingdom.
Chrono Trigger: Chrono Trigger is a console role-playing game developed and published by Square for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System in 1995. The game's story follows a group of adventurers who travel through time to prevent a global catastrophe. Square re-released a ported version by TOSE in Japan for Sony's PlayStation in 1999, later repackaged with a Final Fantasy IV port as Final Fantasy Chronicles in 2001 for the North American market.
Conservatory: Conservatory may refer to the following: College or university school of music or a school devoted to other arts such as film Sunroom, a smaller glass enclosure attached to a house, also called a conservatory Conservatory (greenhouse), a large greenhouse where plants are cultivated
Compactification mathematics: In mathematics, compactification is the process or result of enlarging a topological space to make it compact. The methods of compactification are various, but each is a way of controlling points from "going off to infinity" by in some way adding "points at infinity" or preventing such an "escape".
Cotangent space: In differential geometry, one can attach to every point x of a smooth (or differentiable) manifold a vector space called the cotangent space at x. Typically, the cotangent space is defined as the dual space of the tangent space at x, although there are more direct definitions (see below). The elements of the cotangent space are called cotangent vectors or tangent covectors.
CDE: CDE is a three-letter abbreviation that may refer to:
Conservative Judaism: Conservative Judaism (also known as Masorti Judaism outside of the United States and Canada) is a modern stream of Judaism that arose out of intellectual currents in Germany in the mid-19th century and took institutional form in the United States in the early 1900s.
Cnidaria: Cnidaria is a phylum containing over 9,000 species of animals found exclusively in aquatic and mostly marine environments. Their distinguishing feature is cnidocytes, specialized cells that they use mainly for capturing prey. Their bodies consist of mesoglea, a non-living jelly-like substance, sandwiched between two layers of epithelium that are mostly one cell thick.
Common Desktop Environment: The Common Desktop Environment (CDE) is a desktop environment for Unix, based on the Motif widget toolkit. HP's OpenVMS uses CDE as its standard desktop environment.
Children of Dune: Children of Dune is a science fiction novel by Frank Herbert, third in a series of six novels set in his Dune universe. It sold well, as did its predecessors,, and was critically well-received for its gripping plot, action, and atmosphere and was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1977. It was originally serialized in Analog Science Fiction and Fact in 1976, and was the last Dune novel to be serialized before book publication.
Yangtze River: The Yangtze River, or Chang Jiang, Tibetan: 'Bri-chu, is the longest river in China and Asia, and the third-longest in the world, after the Nile in Africa and the Amazon. The river is about 6300 km long (3915 mi) and flows from its source in Qinghai Province, eastwards into the East China Sea at Shanghai. It acts as a dividing line between North and South China, although geographers generally consider the Qinling-Huai River line to be the official line of geographical division.
Cadillac disambiguation: Cadillac is a General Motors luxury car brand. Cadillac may also refer to:
Bus computing: In computer architecture, a bus is a subsystem that transfers data between computer components inside a computer or between computers. Early computer buses were literally parallel electrical buses with multiple connections, but the term is now used for any physical arrangement that provides the same logical functionality as a parallel electrical bus.
Chinese checkers: Chinese checkers (alternative spelling Chinese chequers) is a board game that can be played by two to six people. It is a variant of Halma; the objective of the game is to place one's pieces in the corner opposite their starting position of a pitted hexagram by single moves or jumps over other pieces.
Candide: Candide, ou l'Optimisme (in French) is a French satire written in 1759 by Voltaire, a philosopher of the Age of Enlightenment. The novella has been widely translated, with English versions titled Candide: or, All for the Best (1759); Candide: or, The Optimist (1762); and Candide: or, Optimism (1947). It begins with a young man, Candide, who is living a sheltered life in an Edenic paradise and being indoctrinated with Leibnizian optimism (or simply optimism) by his mentor, Pangloss.
Croquet: Croquet is a lawn game, played both as a recreational pastime and as a competitive sport, which involves hitting wooden or plastic balls with a mallet through hoops embedded into the grass playing court.
Curling: Curling is a team sport in which stones are slid across a sheet of carefully prepared ice towards a target area. It is related to bowls, boule and shuffleboard. Two teams, each of four players, take turns sliding heavy, polished granite stones across the ice curling sheet towards the house, a circular target marked on the ice. Each team has eight stones.
Cantor Fitzgerald: Cantor Fitzgerald L.P. is a global financial services firm specializing in bond trading, as well as investment banking, asset management, market data and brokerage services. Cantor Fitzgerald is one of eighteen primary dealers who trade U.S. government securities directly with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. It is headquartered in Midtown Manhattan, New York City.
Craven Cottage: Craven Cottage is the name of a football stadium in the Hammersmith and Fulham area that has been the home ground of the association football team Fulham F.C. since 1896. After major refurbishment work was carried out in 2004, the grounds capacity has increased gradually from 22,000 to its current capacity of 25,700.
List of confederations of Germanic tribes: The following are some historical Germanic Confederations: 230 BC - Bastarnae, a mixture of Germanic tribes, at the Black Sea; they participated in the siege of Olbia (modern South Ukraine) in 220 BC. 109 BC - Huge confederation composed of the Germanic of Cimbri and Teutones and the Celtic-Germanic Helvetii formed near Miltenberg in Franconia.
Lists of composers: Composers are generally people who write music. In certain musical genres, such as popular and folk music, the term "songwriter" means someone who authors both music and lyrics, but such a person may also be properly called a "composer. " If a songwriter also performs, he or she is called a "singer/songwriter. " List of composers by name
Constantine: File:Wiktionary-logo-en. svg Look up Constantine in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Constantine most commonly refers to one of the following: Constantine (name), a given name and surname Constantine I, Roman emperor, commonly known as (Saint) Constantine the Great Constantine (film), a 2005 American film It may also refer to:
Cedar Falls Iowa: Cedar Falls is a city in Black Hawk County, Iowa, United States, and it is home to one of Iowa's three public universities, the University of Northern Iowa. The population was 36,145 at the 2000 census. It has the smaller population of the two principal cities in the Cedar Falls-Waterloo, Iowa Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Cleveland Indians: The Cleveland Indians are a professional baseball team based in Cleveland, Ohio. They are in the Central Division of Major League Baseball's American League. Since 1994, they have played in Progressive Field (formerly Jacobs Field). The team's spring training facility is in Goodyear, Arizona. Since their establishment in 1901, the Indians have won two World Series championships, in 1920 and 1948.
Cane toad: The cane toad (Bufo marinus), also known as the Giant Neotropical Toad or Marine Toad, is a large, terrestrial true toad native to Central and South America, but has since been introduced to various islands throughout Oceania and the Caribbean. It is a member of the subgenus Chaunus of the genus Bufo, which includes many different true toad species found throughout Central and South America. The cane toad is a prolific breeder; females lay single-clump spawns with thousands of eggs.
Chicago Cubs: The Chicago Cubs are an American professional baseball team based in Chicago, Illinois. They are members of the Central Division of Major League Baseball's National League. They are one of two Major League clubs based in Chicago (the other being the Chicago White Sox) The Cubs are also one of the two remaining charter members of the National League (the other being the Atlanta Braves).
Cuisine: Cuisine (from French cuisine, "cooking; culinary art; kitchen"; ultimately from Latin coquere, "to cook") is a specific set of cooking traditions and practices, often associated with a specific culture. It is often named after the region or place where its underlining culture is present. A cuisine is primarily influenced by the ingredients that are available locally or through trade. Religious food laws can also exercise a strong influence on cuisine.
October 2003: October 2003: January - February - March - April - May - June - July - August - September - October - November - December
Coldcut: Coldcut are an English dance music duo comprising Matt Black and Jonathan More. Their signature style is electronic dance music, featuring cut up samples of hip hop, breaks, jazz, spoken word and various other types of music, as well as video and multimedia.
Clyde Tombaugh: Clyde William Tombaugh (February 4, 1906 - January 17, 1997) was an American astronomer. Tombaugh is best known for discovering the dwarf planet Pluto in 1930, but also discovered many asteroids, and called for serious scientific research of unidentified flying objects.
Codec: A codec is a device or computer program capable of encoding and/or decoding a digital data stream or signal. The word codec is a portmanteau (a blending of two or more words) of 'compressor-decompressor' or, more commonly, 'coder-decoder'. Historically a modem was a contraction of modulator/demodulator (modem was called dataset by telcos) and converted digital data from computers to analog for phone line transmission. On the receiving end the analog was converted back to digital.
Childhood's End disambiguation: Childhood's End or Child Hood's End may refer to: Childhood's End, a science fiction novel by Sir Arthur C.
CPAN: CPAN, the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network, is an archive of over 18,000 modules of software written in Perl, as well as documentation for it. It has a presence on the World Wide Web at www. cpan. org and is mirrored worldwide on more than 200 locations . CPAN can denote either the archive network itself, or the Perl program that acts as an interface to the network and as an automated software installer (somewhat like a package manager). Most software on CPAN is free and open source software.
Christopher B thory: Christopher Bhory (1530 - May 27, 1581), was a prince of Transylvania. He succeeded his brother Stephen Bhory. He was the father of Sigismund Bhory.
Colorado Rockies: The Colorado Rockies are a Major League Baseball team based in Denver, Colorado. Established in 1991, they started play in 1993, the Rockies play in the West Division of the National League. The team is named after the Rocky Mountains, which pass through Colorado, just west of Denver. The Rockies play their home games at Coors Field in downtown Denver. Following multiple losing seasons, the Rockies won the National League pennant for the first time in franchise history during the 2007 season.
Cement: In the most general sense of the word, a cement is a binder, a substance which sets and hardens independently, and can bind other materials together. The word "cement" traces to the Romans, who used the term "opus caementicium" to describe masonry which resembled concrete and was made from crushed rock with burnt lime as binder.
Central Powers: The Central Powers was one of the two sides that participated in World War I, the other being the Entente (Allied) Powers.
Cincinnati Reds: The Cincinnati Reds are a Major League Baseball team based in Cincinnati, Ohio. They are members of the Central Division of the National League. The franchise originated in 1882 as a charter member of a defunct 19th century Major League, the American Association. The name "Reds" evolved from their original name, the Cincinnati Red Stockings, baseball's first professional team. The Reds then joined the National League in 1890. The Reds have enjoyed sporadic success over their 125-plus years.
Caribbean cuisine: Caribbean cuisine is a fusion of African, Amerindian, British, Spanish, French, Dutch, Indian, and Chinese cuisine. These traditions were brought from the many homelands of this region's population. In addition, the population has created styles that are unique to the region. A typical dish and one increasingly common outside of the area is "jerk" seasoned meats, commonly chicken. It is a unique, spicy flavor, reminiscent of Louisiana Creole cuisine, but still quite distinct from it.
Cape Town: Cape Town is the second-most populous city in South Africa, and the largest in land area, forming part of the City of Cape Town metropolitan municipality. It is the provincial capital and primate city of the Western Cape, as well as the legislative capital of South Africa, where the National Parliament and many government offices are situated.
Conservatism: Conservatism is a political and social term from the Latin verb conservare meaning to save or preserve. As the name suggests it usually indicates support for tradition and traditional values though the meaning has changed in different countries and time periods. The modern political term conservative was used by French politician Chateaubriand in 1819. In Western politics, the term conservatism often refers to the school of thought started by Edmund Burke and similar thinkers. Scholar R. J.
CLI: CLI may refer to:
Crank: Crank may refer to:
Classical liberalism: Classical liberalism is a political ideology that developed in the 19th century in England, Western Europe, and the Americas. It is committed to the ideal of limited government and liberty of individuals including freedom of religion, speech, press, and assembly, and free markets. Notable individuals who have contributed to classical liberalism include Jean-Baptiste Say, Thomas Malthus, and David Ricardo.
Cat: The cat (Felis silvestris catus), also known as the domestic cat or housecat to distinguish it from other felines and felids, is a small domesticated carnivorous mammal that is valued by humans for its companionship and its ability to hunt vermin and household pests. Cats have been associated with humans for at least 9,500 years, and are currently the most popular pet in the world. Due to their close association with humans, cats are now found almost everywhere on Earth.
Communications in Afghanistan: Communications in Afghanistan has dramatically increased since 2002, and has embarked on wireless companies, internet, radio stations and television channels. Afghan telecommunication companies, Afghan Wireless and Roshan, have boasted rapid increase in cellular phone usage in the last several years. There are three more companies now in the telecom business in Afghanistan, one is Areeba, 2nd Ts 2 and the other is Etisalat which were launched in 2007.
Clade: In biological systematics, a clade (from ancient Greek , klados, "branch") signifies a single "branch" on the "Tree of life", a group composed of a single ancestor and all its descendants.. The term was coined by English biologist Julian Huxley. The idea that such a "natural group" of organisms should be grouped together and given a taxonomic name is central to biological classification. In cladistics (which takes its name from the term), clades are the only acceptable units.
Cofinality: In mathematics, especially in order theory, the cofinality cf(A) of a partially ordered set A is the least of the cardinalities of the cofinal subsets of A. This definition of cofinality relies on the axiom of choice, as it uses the fact that every non-empty set of cardinal numbers has a least member. The cofinality of a partially ordered set A can alternatively be defined as the least ordinal x such that there is a function from x to A with cofinal image.
Coca-Cola: Coca-Cola is a carbonated soft drink sold in stores, restaurants, and vending machines internationally. The Coca-Cola Company claims that the beverage is sold in more than 200 countries. It is produced by The Coca-Cola Company in Atlanta, Georgia, and is often referred to simply as Coke (a registered trademark of The Coca-Cola Company in the United States since March 27, 1944) or (in European and American countries) as cola or pop.
Christian of Oliva: Christian of Oliva, Christian of Prussia, (died 1245) was the first Bishop of Prussia. He was a Cistercian. Most but not all authors identify him with Godfrey of kno. Before his appointment as bishop, he had been the abbot of the monastery of ekno near Gniezno. In 1209, Christian was commissioned by Pope Innocent III to be responsible for the Prussian missions between the Rivers Vistula and Neman. He was appointed bishop in 1212.
Citadel: A citadel is a fortress for protecting a town, sometimes incorporating a castle. The term derives from the same Latin root as the word "city", civis, meaning citizen. In a fortification with bastions, the citadel is the strongest part of the system, sometimes well inside the outer walls and bastions, but often forming part of the outer wall for the sake of economy. It is positioned to be the last line of defence should the enemy breach the other components of the fortification system.
Mail armour: Mail or chain mail is a type of armour consisting of small metal rings linked together in a pattern to form a mesh. The word chainmail is of relatively recent coinage, having been in use only since the 1700s; prior to this it was referred to simply as mail. The word itself refers to the armour material, not the garment made from it. A shirt made from mail is a hauberk if knee-length, haubergeon if mid-thigh length, and byrnie if waist-length.
Cerberus: Cerberus, in Greek and Roman mythology, is a multi-headed hound (usually three-headed) which guards the gates of Hades, to prevent those who have crossed the river Styx from ever escaping. Cerberus featured in many works of ancient Greek and Roman literature and in works of both ancient and modern art and architecture, although, the depiction and background surrounding Cerberus often differed across various works by different authors of the era.
CamelCase: CamelCase (also spelled camel case or camel-case) or medial capitals is the practice of writing compound words or phrases in which the elements are joined without spaces, with each element's initial letter capitalized within the compound, and the first letter is either upper or lower caseas in "LaBelle", BackColor, "McDonald's", or "iPod". The name comes from the uppercase "bumps" in the middle of the compound word, suggestive of the humps of a camel. The practice is known by many other names.
Christina: Christina is a female name originating from Christian. It is a well-used name throughout the world with many variants. Its meanings most commonly include "Christian," "Christ-Bearer," although "Angelic," and "Faithful" are sometimes included in its definition.
Cereal: Cereals, grains or cereal grains, are grasses cultivated for the edible components of their fruit seeds (botanically, a type of fruit called a caryopsis) - the endocarp, germ and bran. Cereal grains are grown in greater quantities and provide more food energy worldwide than any other type of crop; they are therefore staple crops. In their natural form (as in whole grain), they are a rich source of vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, fats and oils, and protein.
Christendom: Christendom, or the Christian world, has several meanings. In a cultural sense it refers to the worldwide community of Christians, adherents of Christianity. This community numbers in the billions of people of the world population, and is spread across many different nations and ethnic groups connected only by faith in Christ and observance of the Bible.
Command-line interface: A command-line interface (CLI) is a mechanism for interacting with a computer operating system or software by typing commands to perform specific tasks. This text-only interface contrasts with the use of a mouse pointer with a graphical user interface (GUI) to click on options, or menus on a text user interface (TUI) to select options.
Compressor: Compressor may refer to: Gas compressor, a mechanical device that compresses a gas (e.g.
Coyote: The coyote (Canis latrans), also known as the American jackal or the prairie wolf, is a species of canid found throughout North and Central America, ranging from Panama in the south, north through Mexico, the United States and Canada. It occurs as far north as Alaska and all but the northernmost portions of Canada. There are currently 19 recognized subspecies, with 16 in Canada, Mexico and the United States, and 3 in Central America.
Conan the Barbarian: Conan the Barbarian (also known as Conan the Cimmerian, from the name of his homeland, Cimmeria) is a fictional character in books, comics and movies. He is a hero, a well known and iconic figure in American fantasy, and the most famous barbarian in fiction. Conan is often associated with the fantasy subgenre of sword-and-sorcery and heroic fantasy. He was created by Texan writer Robert E. Howard in 1932 via a series of fantasy stories sold to Weird Tales magazine.
Chris Marker: Chris Marker (born 29 July 1921) is a French writer, photographer, film director, multimedia artist and documentary maker. His best known films are La Jet, A Grin Without a Cat, Sans Soleil and AK, a documentary on the Japanese filmmaker Akira Kurosawa.
Cardinal vowel: Cardinal vowels are a set of reference vowels used by phoneticians in describing the sounds of languages. For instance, the vowel of the English word "feet" can be described with reference to cardinal vowel 1, [i], which is the cardinal vowel closest to it. A cardinal vowel is a vowel sound produced when the tongue is in an extreme position, either front or back, high or low.
Charlton Athletic F.C.: Charlton Athletic Football Club (also known as The Addicks) is a professional association football club based in Charlton, in the London Borough of Greenwich. The club was founded on 9 June 1905, when a number of youth clubs in the South-East London area, including East Street Mission and Blundell Mission, combined to form Charlton Athletic Football Club.
Cross-country skiing: Cross-country skiing (commonly abbreviated XC skiing) is a winter sport in which participants propel themselves across snow-covered terrain using skis and poles. It is popular in many countries with large snowfields, primarily Northern Europe, Canada, Alaska and the upper midwest United States. Skiing can also be done indoors in ski tunnels.
Copacabana Rio de Janeiro: Copacabana is a borough located in the southern zone of the city Rio de Janeiro, known for its 4 km beach which is one of the most famous in the world. The district was originally called Sacopenap until the mid-18th century. It was renamed after the construction of a chapel holding a replica of the Virgen de Copacabana, the patron saint of Bolivia. It was incorporated into the city on July 6, 1892. Copacabana begins at Princesa Isabel Avenue and ends at Posto Seis.
Cy Young Award: The Cy Young Award is an honor given annually in baseball to the best pitchers in Major League Baseball (MLB), one each for the American League (AL) and National League (NL). The award was first introduced in 1956 by Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick in honor of Hall of Fame pitcher Cy Young, who died in 1955. The award was originally given to the single best pitcher in the major leagues, but in 1967, after the retirement of Frick, the award was given to one pitcher in each league.
Christianity and antisemitism: Christianity has had a troubled relationship with Judaism that often involved Antisemitism. Although the first Christians were Jewish, anti-Judaic attitudes started to develop even before the end of the first century and even though there is evidence of continued Jewish-Christian interaction, including Christian participation in Sabbath worship.
Columbia Missouri: Columbia is the fifth-largest city in the U.S. state of Missouri and the largest city in Mid-Missouri. With an estimated population of 100,733 in 2008, it is the principal municipality of the Columbia Metropolitan Area, a region of 164,283 residents. The city serves as the county seat of Boone County and as the location of the University of Missouri. The college town is politically liberal and is known by the nicknames "The Athens of Missouri," "College Town USA," and "CoMO.
C-17 Globemaster III: The Boeing C-17 Globemaster III is a large military transport aircraft. The C-17 was developed for the United States Air Force from the 1980s to the early 1990s by McDonnell Douglas. The aircraft carries on the name of two previous United States military cargo aircraft, the C-74 Globemaster and the C-124 Globemaster II. The C-17 is used for rapid strategic airlift of troops and cargo to main operating bases or forward operating bases throughout the world.
Garbage collection computer science: In computer science, garbage collection (GC) is a form of automatic memory management. It is a special case of resource management, in which the limited resource being managed is memory. The garbage collector, or just collector, attempts to reclaim garbage, or memory occupied by objects that are no longer in use by the program. Garbage collection was invented by John McCarthy around 1959 to solve problems in Lisp.
Canidae: Canidae is the biological family of carnivorous and omnivorous mammals that includes the wolves, foxes, jackals, coyotes, and the domestic dog; a member of this family is called a canid. The Canidae family is divided into the "wolf-like" and "dog-like" animals of the tribe Canini and the "foxes" of the tribe Vulpini. The two species of the basal Caninae are more primitive and do not fit into either tribe.
Subspecies of Canis lupus: Canis lupus has 39 subspecies currently described, including two subspecies of domestic dog, Canis lupus dingo and Canis lupus familiaris, and many subspecies of wolf throughout the northern hemisphere. The nominate subspecies is Canis lupus lupus. Biological taxonomy is not fixed, and placement of taxa is reviewed as a result of new research. The current categorization of subspecies of Canis lupus is shown below.
Constantius II: Flavius Iulius Constantius, known in English as Constantius II (August 7, 317 - November 3, 361) was a Roman Emperor (337-361) of the Constantinian dynasty.
Constans: Flavius Julius Constans (320-350) was a Roman Emperor who ruled from 337 until his death. Constans was the third and youngest son of Constantine the Great and Fausta, Constantine's second wife. On 25 December 333 Constantine elevated Constans to Caesar. In 337 he succeeded his father, jointly with his older brothers Constantine II and Constantius II, receiving Italy, Pannonia and Africa as his portion.
Central Asia: Central Asia Central Asia is a region of Asia from the Caspian Sea in the west to central China in the east, and from southern Russia in the north to Afghanistan in the south. It is also sometimes known as Middle Asia or Inner Asia, and is within the scope of the wider Eurasian continent. Various definitions of its exact composition exist and no one definition is universally accepted. Despite this uncertainty in defining borders, it does have some important overall characteristics.
Couscous: Couscous is a dish of spherical granules made by rolling and shaping moistened semolina wheat and then coating them with finely ground wheat flour. The finished granules are about one millimetre in diameter before cooking. Different cereals may be used. Some variants popular in Israel use granules of hard wheat which are twice the usual diameter. Traditional couscous requires considerable preparation time and is usually steamed.
Cheerleading: Cheerleading is a sport that uses organized routines that usually range from 1 minute to 3 minutes made from elements of tumbling, dance, jumps, cheers, and stunting to direct spectators of events to cheer on sports teams at games and matches and/or compete at cheerleading competitions. Cheerleaders draw attention to the event and encourage audience participation. The athlete involved is called a cheerleader.
Cottingley fairies: The Cottingley Fairies are a series of five photographs taken by Elsie Wright and Frances Griffiths, two young cousins living in Cottingley, near Bradford in England, depicting the two in various activities with supposed fairies. In 1917, when the first two photos were taken, Elsie was 16 years old and Frances was 10. In 1981 both women admitted that the photos were faked using cardboard cutouts.
Clitic: In morphology and syntax, a clitic is a morpheme that is grammatically independent, but phonologically dependent on another word. It is pronounced like an affix, but works at the phrase level. Clitics may belong to any grammatical category, though they are commonly pronouns, determiners, or adpositions. Note that spelling is not a good guide for identifying clitics, clitics may be spelled as independent words, bound affixes or separated by special characters (e.g. apostrophe).
Cheka: The Cheka was the first of a succession of Soviet state security organizations. It was created by a decree issued on December 20, 1917, by Vladimir Lenin and subsequently led by aristocrat turned communist Felix Dzerzhinsky. After 1922, the Cheka underwent a series of reorganizations whose members continued to be referred to as "Chekisty" (Chekists) into the late 1980s. From its founding, the Cheka was an important military and security arm of the Bolshevik communist government.
Context-free grammar: In formal language theory, a context-free grammar (CFG), sometimes also called a phrase structure grammar is a grammar which naturally generates a formal language in which clauses can be nested inside clauses arbitrarily deeply, but where grammatical structures are not allowed to overlap.
Cryonics: Cryonics is the low-temperature preservation of humans and animals who can no longer be sustained by contemporary medicine, with the hope that resuscitation may be possible in the future. Cryopreservation of people or large animals is not reversible with current technology. The stated rationale for cryonics is that people who are considered dead by current legal or medical definitions may not necessarily be dead according to the more stringent information-theoretic definition of death.
EU Patent: The EU patent, formerly known as the Community patent, European Community Patent, or EC patent and sometimes abbreviated as COMPAT, is a patent law measure being debated within the European Union, which would allow individuals and companies to obtain a unitary patent throughout the European Union. The Community patent should not be confused with European patents which are granted under the European Patent Convention.
Cistron: A cistron is a term used to describe the locus responsible for generating a protein. It can also be defined as the segment of DNA that contains all the information for production of single polypeptide In eukaryotic genetics, the concept is very similar to that of a gene. In eukaryotes, genes which function together in a single metabolic pathway may be located on different locations on a chromosome, or on different chromosomes altogether.
Commonwealth: Commonwealth is a traditional English term for a political community founded for the common good. Historically, it has sometimes been synonymous with "republic". More recently it has been used for fraternal associations of sovereign nations, especially the Commonwealth of Nations, which succeeded the British Empire.
Companies law: Companies law (or the law of business associations) is the field of law concerning companies and other business organizations. It is an establishment formed to carry on commercial enterprises. This includes corporations, partnerships and other associations which usually carry on some form of economic or charitable activity. The most prominent kind of company, usually referred to as a "corporation", is a "juristic person", i.e.
Condominium disambiguation: Condominium can refer to: Condominium (international law), a territory in which two sovereign powers have equal rights Condominium, a type of joint ownership of real property in which portions of the property are commonly owned and other portions are individually owned
Commodore 1541: The Commodore 1541 (aka CBM 1541, and originally called VIC-1541), made by Commodore International, was the best-known floppy disk drive for the Commodore 64 home computer. The 1541 was a single-sided 170 kilobyte drive for 5" disks. The 1541 followed the previous Commodore 1540 (meant for the VIC-20). The disk drive used Group Code Recording (GCR) and contained a MOS 6502 microprocessor, doubling as a disk controller and on-board disk operating system processor.
College football: College football refers to American football played by teams of student athletes fielded by American universities, colleges and military academies. It was through college play that American football first gained popularity in the United States.
Commodore 1581: The Commodore 1581 is a 3 inch double sided double density floppy disk drive made by Commodore Business Machines (CBM) primarily for its C64 and C128 home/personal computers. The drive stores 800 kilobytes using an MFM format different from both MS-DOS (720 KB), and the Amiga (880 KB) formats. It was released in the summer of 1987 and quickly became popular with bulletin board system (BBS) operators and other users.
Consubstantiation: Consubstantiation is a theological doctrine that attempts to describe the nature of the Christian Eucharist in concrete metaphysical terms. It holds that during the sacrament, the fundamental "substance" of the body and blood of Christ are present alongside the substance of the bread and wine, which remain present. The doctrine of consubstantiation is often held in contrast to the doctrine of transubstantiation.
Chlorophyta: Chlorophyta, a division of green algae, includes about 7,000 species of mostly aquatic photosynthetic eukaryotic organisms. Like the land plants, green algae contain chlorophylls a and b, and store food as starch in their plastids. They are related to the Charophyta and Embryophyta (land plants), together making up the Viridiplantae. The division contains both unicellular and multicellular species.
Computer animation: Computer animation is the art of creating moving images with the use of computers. It is a subfield of computer graphics and animation. Increasingly it is created by means of 3D computer graphics, though 2D computer graphics are still widely used for stylistic, low bandwidth, and faster real-time rendering needs. Sometimes the target of the animation is the computer itself, but sometimes the target is another medium, such as film.
Ciprofloxacin: Ciprofloxacin is a synthetic chemotherapeutic antibiotic of the fluoroquinolone drug class It is a second generation fluoroquinolone antibacterial. It kills bacteria by interfering with the enzymes that cause DNA to rewind after being copied, which stops DNA and protein synthesis. Ciprofloxacin is marketed worldwide with over three hundred different brand names.
Ceawlin of Wessex: Ceawlin (also spelled Ceaulin and Caelin, died c. 593) was a King of Wessex. He may have been the son of Cynric of Wessex and the grandson of Cerdic of Wessex, whom the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle represents as the leader of the first group of Saxons to come to the land which later became Wessex. Ceawlin was active during the last years of the Anglo-Saxon invasion, with little of southern England remaining in the control of the native Britons by the time of his death.
Christchurch disambiguation: Christchurch is the second largest city in New Zealand. Christchurch may also refer to:
Capybara: The capybara, also known as capibara, chigire in Venezuela, ronsoco in Peru, chigiro, and carpincho in Spanish, and capivara in Portuguese, is the largest living rodent in the world. Its closest relatives are agouti, chinchillas, coyphillas, and guinea pigs. Its common name, derived from Kapiva in the Guarani language, means "master of the grasses" while its scientific name, hydrochaeris, is Greek for "water hog".
CD-R: A CD-R (Compact Disc-Recordable) is a variation of the Compact Disc invented by Philips and Sony. CD-R is a Write Once Read Many (WORM) optical medium, though the whole disk does not have to be entirely written in the same session. CD-R retains a high level of compatibility with standard CD readers, unlike CD-RW - which can be re-written, but is not capable of playing on many readers, and also uses more expensive media.
Citizenship: Citizenship is the state of being a citizen of a particular social, political, or national community. Citizenship status, under social contract theory, carries with it both rights and responsibilities. "Active citizenship" is the philosophy that citizens should work towards the betterment of their community through economic participation, public service, volunteer work, and other such efforts to improve life for all citizens. In this vein, schools in some countries provide citizenship education.
Cytosol: The cytosol or intracellular fluid (or cytoplasmic matrix) is the liquid found inside cells. In eukaryotes this liquid is separated by cell membranes from the contents of the organelles suspended in the cytosol, such as the mitochondrial matrix inside the mitochondrion. The entire contents of a eukaryotic cell within cell membrane, minus the contents of the cell nucleus, are referred to as the cytoplasm.
Cape Breton: The term Cape Breton appears in several different things:
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament: The Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND) is an anti-nuclear organization that advocates unilateral nuclear disarmament by the United Kingdom, and for international nuclear disarmament and tighter international arms regulation through agreements such as the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. It opposes military action that may result in the use of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and the building of nuclear power stations in the UK.
Chrysler Building: The Chrysler Building is an Art Deco skyscraper in New York City, located on the east side of Manhattan in the Turtle Bay area at the intersection of 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue. Standing at 319 metres (1,047 ft), it was the world's tallest building for 11 months before it was surpassed by the Empire State Building in 1931.
Chiapas: Chiapas is the southernmost state of Mexico, located towards the southeast of the country. Chiapas is bordered by the states of Tabasco to the north, Veracruz to the northwest, and Oaxaca to the west. To the east Chiapas borders Guatemala, and to the south the Pacific Ocean, Chiapas has an area of about 74,211 km (28,653 sq mi). The 2005 Mexican census population was 4,293,459 people. In general Chiapas has a humid, tropical climate.
COBOL: COBOL is one of the oldest programming languages. Its name is an acronym for COmmon Business-Oriented Language, defining its primary domain in business, finance, and administrative systems for companies and governments. The COBOL 2002 standard includes support for object-oriented programming and other modern language features.
Ceres Brewery: The Ceres Brewery is a brewery located in Aarhus, Denmark. Today, it is part of Royal Unibrew. It was founded by a grocer named Malthe Conrad Lottrup, with help from the chemists A. S. Aagard and Knud Redelien, as the city's seventh brewery. It was named after the Roman goddess Ceres, and its opening was announced in the local newspaper, Stiftstidende, in 1856. The brewery was successful, and Lottrup became one of the most prominent people of Aarhus.
Crew: A crew is a body or a class of people who work at a common activity, generally in a structured or hierarchical organization. A location in which a crew works is called a crewyard or a workyard. The word has nautical resonances: the tasks involved in operating a ship, particularly a sailing ship, providing numerous specialities within a ship's crew, often organised with a chain of command.
CCD: CCD can stand for:
Charge-coupled device: A charge-coupled device (CCD) is a device for the movement of electrical charge, usually from within the device to an area where the charge can be manipulated, for example conversion into a digital value. This is achieved by "shifting" the signals between stages within the device one at a time. Technically, CCDs are implemented as shift registers that move charge between capacitive bins in the device, with the shift allowing for the transfer of charge between bins.
Computer memory: Computer memory refers to devices that are used to store data or programs (sequences of instructions) on a temporary or permanent basis for use in an electronic digital computer. Computers represent information in binary code, written as sequences of 0s and 1s. Each binary digit (or "bit") may be stored by any physical system that can be in either of two stable states, to represent 0 and 1. Such a system is called bistable.
CDC: CDC may refer to:
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (or CDC) is a United States federal agency under the Department of Health and Human Services based in Atlanta, Georgia. It works to protect public health and safety by providing information to enhance health decisions, and it promotes health through partnerships with state health departments and other organizations.
Chandrasekhar limit: The Chandrasekhar limit limits the mass of bodies made from electron-degenerate matter, a dense form of matter which consists of nuclei immersed in a gas of electrons. The limit is the maximum nonrotating mass which can be supported against gravitational collapse by electron degeneracy pressure. It is named after the Indian astrophysicist Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, and is commonly given as being about 1.4 solar masses.
Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9: Shoemaker-Levy redirects here. For other Shoemaker-Levy comets see List of periodic comets. Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 was a comet that broke apart and collided with Jupiter in July 1994, providing the first direct observation of an extraterrestrial collision of solar system objects. This generated a large amount of coverage in the popular media, and comet was closely observed by astronomers worldwide.
Congregationalist polity: Congregationalist polity, often known as congregationalism, is a system of church governance in which every local church congregation is independent, ecclesiastically sovereign, or "autonomous.
Military engineering vehicles: Military engineering vehicles are vehicles built for military engineering work on the battlefield or for the transportation of combat engineers. These vehicles can range from civilian equipment to purpose built military vehicles.
Cavalry: Cavalry (from French cavalerie, cf. cheval 'horse') were soldiers or warriors who fought mounted on horseback. Cavalry were historically the second oldest (after infantry) and most mobile of the combat arms. A soldier in the cavalry is known by a number of designations such as cavalryman or trooper. The designation of cavalry was not usually given to any military force that used other animals, such as camels or mules.
Citric acid cycle: The citric acid cycle also known as the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA cycle), the Krebs cycle, or more rarely, the Szent-Gygyi-Krebs cycle, is a series of enzyme-catalysed chemical reactions, which is of central importance in all living cells that use oxygen as part of cellular respiration. In eukaryotic cells, the citric acid cycle occurs in the matrix of the mitochondrion.
Catalonia: Catalonia is one of the seventeen Autonomous Communities of the Kingdom of Spain. Its capital city is Barcelona. Catalonia covers an area of 32,114 km and has an official population of 7,475,420. It borders France and Andorra to the north, Aragon to the west, the Valencian Community to the south, and the Mediterranean Sea to the east (580 km coastline). The official languages are Catalan, Spanish and Aranese.
Carl Sagan: Carl Edward Sagan (November 9, 1934 - December 20, 1996) was an American astronomer, astrophysicist, author, and highly successful popularizer of astronomy, astrophysics and other natural sciences. He pioneered exobiology and promoted the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI). He is world-famous for writing popular science books and for co-writing and presenting the award-winning 1980 television series ', which has been seen by more than 500 million people in over 60 countries.
Constantine Kanaris: Constantine Kanaris (1793 or 1795 - September 14, 1877) was a Greek admiral, freedom fighter and politician.
Aquilegia: Colombine is a genus of about 60-70 species of columbines, herbaceous perennial plants that are found in meadows, woodlands, and at higher altitudes throughout the Northern Hemisphere. They are known for their distinctive flowers, generally bell-shaped, with each petal modified into an elongated nectar spur. Its fruit takes the form of a follicle. Columbine is derived from the Latin word for Dove.
Cuban Missile Crisis: The Cuban Missile Crisis was a confrontation between the United States, the Soviet Union, and Cuba in October 1962, during the Cold War. In the countries of the former Soviet Union, former Eastern Bloc countries, and other communist countries, it is termed the "Caribbean Crisis", while in Cuba it is called the "October Crisis" . In September 1962, the Cuban and Soviet governments placed nuclear missiles in Cuba. When United States military intelligence discovered the weapons, the U.S.
Cultural production and nationalism: Literature, visual arts, music, and scholarship have complex relationships with ideological forces.
Cache: In computer science, a cache is a component that improves performance by transparently storing data such that future requests for that data can be served faster. The data that is stored within a cache might be values that have been computed earlier or duplicates of original values that are stored elsewhere. If requested data is contained in the cache (cache hit), this request can be served by simply reading the cache, which is comparably faster.
List of computer scientists: This is a list of well-known computer scientists, people who do work in computer science, in particular researchers and authors. Some persons notable as programmers are included here because they work in research as well as program. A few of these people pre-date the invention of the digital computer; they are now regarded as computer scientists because their work can be seen as leading to the invention of the computer.
Columbus Indiana: Columbus is a city in and the county seat of Bartholomew County, Indiana, United States. The population was 39,059 at the 2000 census. The current mayor is Fred Armstrong. It is located approximately 40 miles (64 km) south of Indianapolis, on the east fork of the White River. It is the state's 20th largest city. It is also the principal city of the Columbus, Indiana, metropolitan statistical area which encompasses all of Bartholomew County. Columbus is currently ranked eleventh in the U.S.
Cygwin: Cygwin is a Unix-like environment and command-line interface for Microsoft Windows. Cygwin provides native integration of Windows-based applications, data, and other system resources with applications, software tools, and data of the Unix-like environment. Thus it is possible to launch Windows applications from the Cygwin environment, as well as to use Cygwin tools and applications within the Windows operating context.
CRESU experiment: The CRESU experiment (meaning Cinique de Rction en Ecoulement Supersonique Uniforme, or Reaction Kinetics in Uniform Supersonic Flow) is an experiment investigating chemical reactions taking place at very low temperatures. The technique involves the expansion of a gas or mixture of gases through a de Laval nozzle from a high pressure reservoir into a vacuum chamber.
Colossae: Colossae or Colosse, was an ancient city of Phrygia, on the Lycus, which is a tributary of the Maeander River. It was situated about 12 miles above Laodicea, and near the great road from Ephesus to the Euphrates. The site, located near the modern town of Honaz in Turkey, has never been excavated.
Charge of the Goddess: The Charge of the Goddess is a traditional inspirational text sometimes used in the neopagan religion of Wicca. Several versions exist, though they all have the same basic premise, that of a set of instructions given by a Great Goddess to her worshippers. The most well known version is that written by Gerald Gardner, and rewritten by his High Priestess Doreen Valiente in the mid 1950s, which is contained within the traditional Gardnerian Book of Shadows.
Cy Young: Denton True "Cy" Young (March 29, 1867 - November 4, 1955) was an American baseball player who pitched for five different major league teams from 1890 to 1911. Young was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1937. One year after Young's death, the Cy Young Award was created to honor the previous season's best pitcher. During his 22-year career, Young established numerous professional pitching records in the majors, some of which have stood for a century.
Corinth: Corinth, or Korinth (Greek , Kinthos is a city in Greece. In antiquity it was a city-state, on the Isthmus of Corinth, the narrow stretch of land that joins the Peloponnesus to the mainland of Greece. To the west of the isthmus lies the Gulf of Corinth, to the east lies the Saronic Gulf. Corinth is about 78 kilometres southwest of Athens. The isthmus, which was in ancient times traversed by hauling ships over the rocky ridge on sledges, is now cut by a canal.
Coronation Street: Coronation Street (colloquially known as Corrie, Corror or The Street) is a British prime-time soap opera set in the fictional town of Weatherfield, four miles in either direction from the city of Manchester. Created by Tony Warren, Coronation Street is the longest running and most watched British soap opera. Coronation Street was first broadcast on 9 December 1960, made by Granada Television and broadcast in all regions of ITV almost throughout its existence.
Caligula: Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus Germanicus (31 August AD 12 - 24 January AD 41), more commonly known by his agnomen Caligula, was the third Roman Emperor, reigning from 16 March 37 until his assassination on 24 January 41. Caligula was a member of the house of rulers conventionally known as the Julio-Claudian dynasty. Caligula's father, Germanicus, the nephew and adopted son of emperor Tiberius, was a very successful general and one of Rome's most beloved public figures.
Computer multitasking: In computing, multitasking is a method by which multiple tasks, also known as processes, share common processing resources such as a CPU. In the case of a computer with a single CPU, only one task is said to be running at any point in time, meaning that the CPU is actively executing instructions for that task. Multitasking solves the problem by scheduling which task may be the one running at any given time, and when another waiting task gets a turn.
Church Turing thesis: In computability theory the Church-Turing thesis (also known as the Church-Turing conjecture, Church's thesis, Church's conjecture, and Turing's thesis) is a combined hypothesis ("thesis") about the nature of effectively calculable (computable) functions by recursion (Church's Thesis), by mechanical device equivalent to a Turing machine (Turing's Thesis) or by use of Church's -calculus.
Clarence Thomas: Clarence Thomas (born June 23, 1948) is an American jurist who has served as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States since 1991. Thomas is the second African American to serve on the Court, after Thurgood Marshall, whom he succeeded. Thomas grew up in Georgia and was educated at the College of the Holy Cross and at Yale Law School. In 1974, he was appointed an Assistant Attorney General in Missouri and subsequently practiced law there in the private sector.
Concordat of Worms: The Concordat of Worms, sometimes called the Pactum Calixtinum by papal historians, was an agreement between Pope Calixtus II and Holy Roman Emperor Henry V on September 23, 1122 near the city of Worms.
Compression ratio: The compression ratio of an internal-combustion engine or external combustion engine is a value that represents the ratio of the volume of its combustion chamber; from its largest capacity to its smallest capacity. It is a fundamental specification for many common combustion engines.
Context-free language: In formal language theory, a context-free language is a language generated by some context-free grammar. The set of all context-free languages is identical to the set of languages accepted by pushdown automata.
CE: CE, Ce or ce may refer to: Cerium (symbol for the chemical element)
Cyc: Cyc is an artificial intelligence project that attempts to assemble a comprehensive ontology and knowledge base of everyday common sense knowledge, with the goal of enabling AI applications to perform human-like reasoning. The project was started in 1984 by Douglas Lenat at MCC and is developed by company Cycorp. Parts of the project are released as OpenCyc, which provides an API, RDF endpoint, and data dump under an open source license.
Chiang Kai-shek: Chiang Kai-shek (October 31, 1887 - April 5, 1975) was a political and military leader of 20th century China. He was an influential member of the Kuomintang (KMT) and Sun Yat-sen's close ally. He became the commandant of Kuomintang's Whampoa Military Academy and took Sun's place in the party when the latter died in 1925. In 1928, Chiang led the Northern Expedition to unify the country, becoming China's overall leader.
Caffeine: Caffeine is a bitter, white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that is a psychoactive stimulant drug. Caffeine was discovered by a German chemist, Friedrich Ferdinand Runge, in 1819. He coined the term kaffein, a chemical compound in coffee, which in English became caffeine. Caffeine is found in varying quantities in the beans, leaves, and fruit of some plants, where it acts as a natural pesticide that paralyzes and kills certain insects feeding on the plants.
Cyborgs in fiction: Cyborgs are a prominent staple in the science fiction genre. This article summarizes notable instances of cyborgs in fiction.
Caesar salad: A Caesar salad has romaine lettuce and croutons dressed with parmesan cheese, lemon juice, olive oil, egg, Worcestershire sauce, and black pepper. It may be prepared tableside.
Carlos Valderrama footballer: Carlos Alberto Valderrama Palacio, also known as El Pibe, is a former Colombian football player. His mass of blond, permed hair made him one of Colombia's most recognisable footballers. Valderrama captained the Colombia national football team in the 1990s during the 1990, 1994 and 1998 World Cups. Between 1985 and 1998 he represented Colombia in 111 full internationals and scored 11 times, making him the most capped player in the country's history.
Cecilia Beaux: Cecilia Beaux (May 1, 1855 - September 7, 1942) was an American society portraitist, in the nature of John Singer Sargent. She was a near contemporary of better-known American artist Mary Cassatt and also received her training in Philadelphia and France. Her sympathetic renderings of American ruling class made her one of the most successful portrait painters of her era.
Chrysler: Chrysler Group LLC is a U.S. automobile manufacturer headquartered in the Detroit suburb of Auburn Hills, Michigan. Chrysler was first organized as the Chrysler Corporation in 1925. From 1998 to 2007, Chrysler and its subsidiaries were part of the German based DaimlerChrysler AG. Prior to 1998, Chrysler Corporation traded under the "C" symbol on the New York Stock Exchange. Under DaimlerChrysler, the company was named "DaimlerChrysler Motors Company LLC", with its U.S.
Clitoris: The clitoris is a sexual organ that is present only in female mammals. In humans, the visible button-like portion is located near the anterior junction of the labia minora, above the opening of the urethra and vagina. Unlike the penis, which is homologous to the clitoris, the clitoris does not contain the distal portion of the urethra. The only known exception to this is in the Spotted Hyena.
City of London: The City of London is a small area within Greater London, England. It is the historic core of London around which the modern conurbation grew and has held city status since time immemorial. The Citys boundaries have remained almost unchanged since the Middle Ages, and it is now only a tiny part of the metropolis of London, though remains a notable part of Central London. It is often referred to as the City or the Square Mile, as it is just over one square mile (1.12 sq mi/2.90 km) in area.
Cyrix 6x86: The Cyrix 6x86 (codename M1) is a sixth-generation, 32-bit 80x86-compatible microprocessor designed by Cyrix and manufactured by IBM and SGS-Thomson. It was originally released in 1996.
Colon classification: Colon classification (CC) is a system of library classification developed by S. R. Ranganathan. It was the first ever faceted (or analytico-synthetic) classification. The first edition was published in 1933. Since then six more editions have been published. It is especially used in libraries in India. Its name "Colon classification" comes from the use of colons to separate facets in class numbers.
Sacraments of the Catholic Church: The Sacraments of the Catholic Church are, the Church teaches, "efficacious signs of grace, instituted by Christ and entrusted to the Church, by which divine life is dispensed to us. The visible rites by which the sacraments are celebrated signify and make present the graces proper to each sacrament. They bear fruit in those who receive them with the required dispositions.
Census: A census is the procedure of systematically acquiring and recording information about the members of a given population. It is a regularly occurring and official count of a particular population. The term is used mostly in connection with national population and door-to-door censuses (to be taken every 10 years according to United Nations recommendations), agriculture, and business censuses.
Outline of chemistry: Chemistry is the science of matter at the atomic to molecular scale, dealing primarily with collections of atoms, such as molecules, crystals, and metals. Chemistry deals with the composition and statistical properties of such structures, as well as their transformations and interactions to become materials encountered in everyday life.
Outline of critical theory: In the humanities and social sciences, critical theory has two quite different meanings with different origins and histories, one originating in social theory and the other in literary criticism. The former is theory oriented toward critiquing and changing society as a whole, in contrast to traditional theory oriented only to understanding or explaining it.
A.C. ChievoVerona: Associazione Calcio ChievoVerona (more commonly called ChievoVerona or simply Chievo) is an Italian professional football club named after and based in Chievo, a suburb of 2800 inhabitants in Verona, Veneto, and owned by Paluani, a cake company and the inspiration for their original name, Paluani Chievo. The club is nicknamed alternatively gialloblu, Mussi volanti or Ceo, and shares its stadium with Hellas Verona which is the 42,160 seater Marcantonio Bentegodi stadium.
Chicago: Chicago (or) is the third largest city in the United States in terms of population, and with more than 2.8 million people, the largest city in the state of Illinois and the Midwestern United States. Located on the southwestern shores of Lake Michigan, bordering the Illinois-Indiana State Line, Chicago is the third-most densely populated major city in the U.S. , and anchor to the world's 26th largest metropolitan area with over 9.56 million people across three states.
Context switch: A context switch is the computing process of storing and restoring the state of a CPU so that execution can be resumed from the same point at a later time. This enables multiple processes to share a single CPU resource. The context switch is an essential feature of a multitasking operating system. Context switches are usually computationally intensive and much of the design of operating systems is to optimize the use of context switches.
Carnatic: Carnatic may mean: Carnatic region, a region of South India Carnatic music HMS Carnatic (1783), a 74-gun third rate ship of the line of the Royal Navy, launched at Deptford in in 1783 HMS Carnatic (1823), a 74-gun third rate ship of the line of the Royal Navy, launched at Portsmouth Dockyard in 1823 SS Carnatic, a shipwrecked steamer the Carnatic Wars, a series of military contests in India during the 18th century Carnatic Halls, a student halls of residence serving the University of Liverpool
Cotswolds: The Cotswolds is a range of hills in west-central England, sometimes called the "Heart of England", an area 25 miles (40 km) across and 90 miles (145 km) long. The area has been designated as the Cotswold Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. The highest point in the Cotswolds range is Cleeve Hill at 1,083 ft (330 m), 2.5 miles (4 km) to the north of Cheltenham. The name Cotswold means either "sheep enclosure in rolling hillsides" or it comes from the term "wold" meaning hills.
Cloning: Cloning in biology is the process of similar producing populations of genetically identical individuals that occurs in nature when organisms such as bacteria, insects or plants reproduce asexually. Cloning in biotechnology refers to processes used to create copies of DNA fragments, cells (cell cloning), or organisms. The term also refers to the production of multiple copies of a product such as digital media or software.
Chakra: Chakra is a Sanskrit word that translates as "wheel" or "turning". Chakra is a concept referring to wheel-like vortices which, according to traditional Indian medicine, are believed to exist in the surface of the etheric double of man. The Chakras are said to be "force centres" or whorls of energy permeating, from a point on the physical body, the layers of the subtle bodies in an ever-increasing fan-shaped formation (the fans make the shape of a love heart).
Cortez: The name Cortez may refer to:
Colony: This article is about a type of political territory. For other uses see Colony. In politics and in history, a colony is a territory under the immediate political control of a state. For colonies in antiquity, city-states would often found their own colonies. Some colonies were historically countries, while others were territories without definite statehood from their inception. The metropolitan state is the state that owns the colony.
Rod cryptozoology and ufology: In cryptozoology, ufology, and outdoor photography, rods (sometimes known as "skyfish" or "solar entities") are elongated artifacts produced by cameras that inadvertently capture several of a flying insect's wingbeats. Videos of rod-shaped objects moving quickly through the air fueled speculation that the atmosphere was filled with a previously unknown species or small UFOs, but subsequent experiments showed that these rods appear in film because of an optical illusion.
Carmilla: "Carmilla" is a Gothic novella by Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu. First published in 1872, it tells the story of a young woman's susceptibility to the attentions of a female vampire named Carmilla. "Carmilla" predates Bram Stoker's Dracula by 25 years and has been adapted many times for cinema.
Cellulose: Cellulose is an organic compound with the formula n, a polysaccharide consisting of a linear chain of several hundred to over ten thousand (14) linked -glucose units. Cellulose is the structural component of the primary cell wall of green plants, many forms of algae and the oomycetes. Some species of bacteria secrete it to form biofilms. Cellulose is the most common organic compound on Earth.
Column: A column in structural engineering is a vertical structural element that transmits, through compression, the weight of the structure above to other structural elements below. For the purpose of wind or earthquake engineering, columns may be designed to resist lateral forces. Other compression members are often termed "columns" because of the similar stress conditions. Columns are frequently used to support beams or arches on which the upper parts of walls or ceilings rest.
Clitoridectomy: Clitoridectomy is the surgical removal of the clitoris. It is rarely needed as a therapeutic medical procedure, such as when cancer has developed in or spread to the clitoris. Most removals of the clitoris probably occur as female genital cutting, defined by the World Health Organisation as "all procedures involving partial or total removal of the external female genitalia or other injury to the female genital organs whether for cultural, religious or other non-therapeutic reasons.".
Cabal: A cabal is a number of people greater than two together in some close design, usually to promote their private views and interests in a church, state, or other community, often by . Cabals are sometimes secret societies composed of a few designing persons, and at other times are manifestations of emergent behavior in society or governance on the part of a community of persons who have well established public affiliation or kinship.
Colette: Colette was the surname of the French novelist Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette (28 January 1873 - 3 August 1954). She is best known for her novel Gigi (upon which the stage and film musical comedies by Lerner & Loewe, of the same title, were based).
Cytochrome: Cytochromes are, in general, membrane-bound hemoproteins that contain heme groups and carry out electron transport. They are found either as monomeric proteins or as subunits of bigger enzymatic complexes that catalyze redox reactions. They are found in the mitochondrial inner membrane and endoplasmic reticulum of eukaryotes, in the chloroplasts of plants, in photosynthetic microorganisms, and in bacteria.
Crowded House: Crowded House (or The Crowdies to fans) is a rock group formed in 1985 in Melbourne, Australia and led by New Zealand singer-songwriter Neil Finn. Finn is widely recognised as the primary songwriter and creative director of the band, having led it through several incarnations, drawing members from New Zealand, Australia and the United States.
Charles Alston: Charles Henry Alston (November 28, 1907 - April 27, 1977), born in Charlotte, North Carolina, was an African American artist, muralist, and teacher.
Chromatin: Chromatin is the complex combination of DNA and proteins that makes up chromosomes. It is found inside the nuclei of eukaryotic cells. It is divided between heterochromatin (condensed) and euchromatin (extended) forms. The major components of chromatin are DNA and histone proteins, although many other chromosomal proteins have prominent roles too.
Cheddar cheese: Cheddar cheese is a relatively hard yellow to off-white, and sometimes sharp-tasting cheese originally made in the English village of Cheddar, in Somerset. Cheddar cheese is the most popular cheese in the United Kingdom, accounting for 51% of the country's 1.9 billion annual cheese market. Cheddar cheese has been widely imitated, both in the United Kingdom and in other countries, including Ireland, the United States, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Canada and Iceland.
Classical education movement: The Classical education movement advocates a form of education based in the traditions of Western culture, with a particular focus on education as understood and taught in the Middle Ages, with a further glance back to the Ancient Greek concept of Paideia. "Classical education" was first developed by Martianus Capella, and systematized by Petrus Ramus. It is an essential part of Ramism. Capella's original goal was to provide a systematic, memorable framework to teach all human knowledge.
Classical order: A classical order is one of the ancient styles of classical architecture, each distinguished by its proportions and characteristic profiles and details, and most readily recognizable by the type of column employed. From the sixteenth century onwards, architectural theorists recognized five orders. Each style has its proper entablature, consisting of architrave, frieze and cornice.
Condition number: In the numerical analysis, the condition number associated with a problem is a measure of that problem's amenability to digital computation, that is, how numerically well-conditioned the problem is. A problem with a low condition number is said to be well-conditioned, while a problem with a high condition number is said to be ill-conditioned.
Colin Kapp: Colin Kapp (1928 - August 3, 2007) was a British science fiction author. A contemporary of Brian Aldiss and James White, Kapp is best known for his stories about the Unorthodox Engineers. His 1984 short story "Something in the City" was eerily prescient about the situation faced by the US military after the 2003 invasion of Iraq.
Catherine of Aragon: Catherine of Aragon was Princess of Wales as the wife to Arthur, Prince of Wales, and Queen of England as the first wife of King Henry VIII of England. For six months, she served as regent of England while Henry VIII was in France. During that time the English won the Battle of Flodden, an event Catherine played an important part in.
Cathode ray: Cathode rays (also called an electron beam or e-beam) are streams of electrons observed in vacuum tubes, i.e. evacuated glass tubes that are equipped with at least two metal electrodes to which a voltage is applied, a cathode or negative electrode and an anode or positive electrode. They were discovered by German scientist Johann Hittorf in 1869 and in 1876 named by Eugen Goldstein kathodenstrahlen (cathode rays). Electrons were first discovered as the constituents of cathode rays.
Chrominance: Chrominance (chroma for short), is the signal used in video systems to convey the color information of the picture, separately from the accompanying luma signal. Chrominance is usually represented as two color-difference components: U = B'-Y' (blue - luma) and V = R'-Y' (red - luma). Each of these difference components may have scale factors and offsets applied to them, as specified by the applicable video standard.
Cathode: A cathode is an electrode through which electric current flows out of a polarized electrical device. Mnemonic: CCD (Cathode Current Departs). A widespread misconception is that cathode polarity is always negative. This is often incorrectly inferred from the correct fact that in all electrochemical devices positively charged cations move towards the cathode (hence their name) and/or negatively charged anions move away from it.
Chirality: Chirality (handedness) is a property of asymmetry important in several branches of science. It may refer to: Chirality (chemistry), molecules having a non-superimposable mirror image Chirality (mathematics), a figure that is not identical to its mirror image Chirality (physics), phenomenon that is not identical to its mirror image Chirality (electromagnetism), electromagnetic propagation in chiral media Chirality (manga)
Campus: A campus is traditionally the land on which a college or university and related institutional buildings are situated. Usually a campus includes libraries, lecture halls, residence halls and park-like settings. The definition currently defines a collection of buildings that belong to a given institution, either academic or non-academic. The word first was adopted to describe a particular urban space at the College of New Jersey during the early decades of the eighteenth century.
Crossbow: A crossbow is a weapon consisting of a bow mounted on a stock that shoots projectiles, often called bolts or quarrels. The medieval crossbow was called by many names, most of which derived from the word ballista, a torsion engine resembling a crossbow in appearance. Historically, crossbows played a significant role in the warfare of East Asia, Europe, and the Mediterranean. Today, they are used primarily for target shooting and hunting.
Carbamazepine: Carbamazepine (CBZ) is an anticonvulsant and mood stabilizing drug used primarily in the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder, as well as trigeminal neuralgia. It is also used off-label for a variety of indications, including attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), schizophrenia, phantom limb syndrome, paroxysmal extreme pain disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder.
Chalcedonian Creed: The Confession of Chalcedon (also Definition or Creed of Chalcedon), also known as the "Doctrine of the Hypostatic Union" or the "Two-Nature Doctrine", was adopted at the Council of Chalcedon in 451 in Asia Minor. That Council of Chalcedon is one of the seven ecumenical councils accepted by Eastern Orthodox, Catholic, and many Protestant Christian churches. It is the first Council not recognized by any of the Oriental Orthodox churches.
Chord: Chord may mean: Chord (music), an aggregate of musical pitches sounded simultaneously.
Car Talk: Car Talk is a radio talk show broadcast weekly on National Public Radio stations throughout the United States and elsewhere. Its subjects are automobiles and repair, and it often takes humorous turns. The hosts of Car Talk are brothers Tom and Ray Magliozzi, also known as Click and Clack, the Tappet Brothers.
Conservation law: In physics, a conservation law states that a particular measurable property of an isolated physical system does not change as the system evolves. One particularly important physical result concerning conservation laws is Noether's Theorem, which states that there is a one-to-one correspondence between conservation laws and differentiable symmetries of physical systems.
Council of Chalcedon: The Council of Chalcedon is considered by the Roman Catholics, the Eastern Orthodox, the Old Catholics, and various other Western Christian groups to have been the Fourth Ecumenical Council . It was held from 8 October to 1 November 451 at Chalcedon. The ancient city has been absorbed by greater Istanbul and is now the neighbourhood of Kadk, on the Asian side of the Bosphorus.
CRM: CRM may refer to:
Customer relationship management: Customer relationship management is a broadly recognized, widely-implemented strategy for managing and nurturing a companys interactions with clients and sales prospects. It involves using technology to organize, automate, and synchronize business processesprincipally sales activities, but also those for marketing, customer service, and technical support.
Chuck-a-luck: Chuck-a-luck, also known as birdcage, is a game of chance played with three dice. It is derived from grand hazard, and both can be considered a variant of sic bo, a popular casino game, although chuck-a-luck is more of a carnival game than a true casino game. The game is sometimes used as a fundraiser for charity.
Chipmunk: Chipmunks are small squirrel-like rodents of the genus Tamias. They are native to North America and Asia.
Canadian football: Canadian football is a form of gridiron football played almost exclusively in Canada in which two teams of 12 players each compete for territorial control of a field of play 110 yards (101 m) long and 65 yards (59 m) wide attempting to advance a pointed prolate spheroid ball into the opposing team's scoring area. In Canada, the term football usually refers to Canadian football and American football collectively, or either sport specifically, depending on the context.
Computer music: Computer music is a term that was originally used within academia to describe a field of study relating to the applications of computing technology in music composition; particularly that stemming from the Western art music tradition. It includes the theory and application of new and existing technologies in music, such as sound synthesis, digital signal processing, sound design, sonic diffusion, acoustics, and psychoacoustics.
List of classical music competitions: The European Classical art music idiom has long relied on the institution of music competitions to provide a public forum that identifies the strongest young players and contributes to the establishment of their professional careers. This is a list of classical music competitions.
Concept: There are two prevailing theories in contemporary philosophy which attempt to explain the nature of concepts . The representational theory of mind proposes that concepts are mental representations, while the semantic theory of concepts holds that they are abstract objects. Ideas are taken to be concepts, although abstract concepts do not necessarily appear to the mind as images as some ideas do. Many philosophers consider concepts to be a fundamental ontological category of being.
Colin Powell: Colin Luther Powell (born April 5, 1937) is an American statesman and a retired four-star general in the United States Army. He was the 65th United States Secretary of State (2001-2005), serving under President George W. Bush. He was the first African American appointed to that position. During his military career, Powell also served as National Security Advisor (1987-1989), as Commander-in-Chief, U.S.
Chlorophyll: Chlorophyll is a green pigment found in most plants, algae, and cyanobacteria. Its name is derived from the Greek (chloros "green") and (phyllon "leaf"). Chlorophyll absorbs light most strongly in the blue and red but poorly in the green portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, hence the green colour of chlorophyll-containing tissues such as plant leaves. Chlorophyll was first isolated by Joseph Bienaim Caventou and Pierre Joseph Pelletier in 1817.
Carotene: The term carotene is used for several related substances having the formula C40Hx, which are synthesized by plants but cannot be made by animals. Carotene is an orange photosynthetic pigment important for photosynthesis. Carotenes are responsible for the orange colour of the carrot for which it is named, and many other fruits and vegetables. Carotenes are also responsible for the orange colours in dry foliage.
Cyclic adenosine monophosphate: Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP, cyclic AMP or 3'-5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate) is a second messenger important in many biological processes. cAMP is derived from adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and used for intracellular signal transduction in many different organisms, conveying the cAMP-dependent pathway.
Cimabue: Cenni di Pepo (Giovanni) Cimabue (c. 1240 c. 1302) also known as Bencivieni di Pepo or in modern Italian, Benvenuto di Giuseppe, was an Italian painter and creator of mosaics from Florence. He is also well known for his student Giotto, considered the first great artist of the Italian Renaissance. Cimabue is generally regarded as the last great Italian painter working in the Byzantine tradition.
Corporatocracy: Corporatocracy or corpocracy is a form of government where corporations, conglomerates or government entities with private components, control the direction and governance of a country.
Culture of Canada: Canadian culture is a term that encompasses the artistic, musical, literary, culinary, political and social elements that are representative of Canada, not only to its own population, but people all over the world. Canada's culture has historically been influenced by European culture and traditions, especially British and French. Over time, elements of the cultures of Canada's Aboriginal peoples and immigrant populations have become incorporated into mainstream Canadian culture.
List of companies of Canada: Resource for List of Companies in Canada: http://www. list-of-companies. org/Canada/
Chinese calendar: The Chinese calendar is lunisolar, incorporating elements of a lunar calendar with those of a solar calendar. It is not exclusive to China, but followed by many other Asian cultures. It is often referred to as the Chinese calendar because it was first perfected by the Chinese around 500 BCE .
Control engineering: Control engineering or Control systems engineering is the engineering discipline that applies control theory to design systems with predictable behaviors. Multi-disciplinary in nature, control systems engineering activities focus on implementation of control systems mainly derived by mathematical modeling of systems of a diverse range.
Cauchy distribution: The Cauchy-Lorentz distribution, named after Augustin Cauchy and Hendrik Lorentz, is a continuous probability distribution. As a probability distribution, it is known as the Cauchy distribution, while among physicists, it is known as the Lorentz distribution, Lorentz(ian) function, or Breit-Wigner distribution. Its importance in physics is due to its being the solution to the differential equation describing forced resonance.
Kulmerland: Kulmerland is a German name of a historical region in central Poland bounded by the Vistula and Drwca rivers. Kulmerland is named after the city of Chemno (also known as Culm). The largest cities in the region are Toru, Grudzidz, Chemno, and Chema. Sometimes it was considered to be part of the neighbouring provinces of Masovia, Kuyavia, Greater Poland, Prussia, and Pomerania; it is currently part of the Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodship.
Christiaan Barnard: Christiaan Neethling Barnard (November 8, 1922 - September 2, 2001) was a South African cardiac surgeon, famous for performing the world's first successful human-to-human heart transplant.
Concubinage: Concubinage is the state of a woman in an ongoing, usually matrimonially-oriented relationship with a man who cannot be married to her, often because of a difference in social status.
Chagas disease: Chagas disease is a tropical parasitic disease caused by the flagellate protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. T. cruzi is commonly transmitted to humans and other mammals by an insect vector, the blood-sucking assassin bugs of the subfamily Triatominae most commonly species belonging to the Triatoma, Rhodnius, and Panstrongylus genera. The disease may also be spread through blood transfusion and organ transplantation, ingestion of food contaminated with parasites, and from a mother to her fetus.
Correggio disambiguation: Correggio may refer to: Correggio, Italy Antonio da Correggio Niccol da Correggio (1450-1508), an Italian poet Corregio (play), a tragedy written by Adam Oehlenschler in 1811
Central Plaza Hong Kong: Central Plaza is the third tallest skyscraper in Hong Kong. With a height of 374 m (1,227 ft), Central Plaza is only surpassed by 2 IFC and the ICC in Central. The building is located at 18 Harbour Road, in Wan Chai on Hong Kong Island. It was the tallest building in Asia from 1992 to 1996, until the Shun Hing Square in Shenzhen, People's Republic of China, was built. The 78-storey building was completed in August 1995.
Jean-Baptiste-Sim on Chardin: Jean-Baptiste-Simn Chardin (2 November 1699 - 6 December 1779) was an 18th-century French painter. He is considered a master of still life.
Caravaggio: Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio, (29 September 1571 - 18 July 1610) was an Italian artist active in Rome, Naples, Malta and Sicily between 1593 and 1610. His intensely emotional realism and dramatic use of lighting had a formative influence on the Baroque school of painting. Trained in Milan under a master who had himself trained under Titian, Caravaggio moved to Rome in his early 20s.
Crookes radiometer: The Crookes radiometer, also known as the light mill, consists of an airtight glass bulb, containing a partial vacuum. Inside are a set of vanes which are mounted on a spindle. The vanes rotate when exposed to light, with faster rotation for more intense light, providing a quantitative measurement of electromagnetic radiation intensity. The reason for the rotation has historically been a cause of much scientific debate.
Cold Chisel: Cold Chisel is a rock band that originated in Adelaide, Australia. It is one of the most acclaimed and revered Australian acts of all time, with a string of hits throughout the 1970s and 1980s and huge sales that continue to this day. While its success and acclaim was almost completely restricted to Australia and New Zealand, the legend and stature of the band and its songs has only continued to grow in those territories.
Cranberry: Cranberries are a group of evergreen dwarf shrubs or trailing vines in the genus Vaccinium subgenus Oxycoccos, or in some treatments, in the distinct genus Oxycoccos. They are found in acidic bogs throughout the cooler parts of the Northern Hemisphere. Cranberries are low, creeping shrubs or vines up to 2 m long and 5 to 20 cm in height; they have slender, wiry stems that are not thickly woody and have small evergreen leaves.
Caitlin Clarke: Caitlin Clarke (May 3, 1952 - September 9, 2004) was an American theater and film actress best known for her role as "Valerian" in the 1981 fantasy film Dragonslayer and for her role as Charlotte Cardoza in the 1998-1999 Broadway musical Titanic.
Code coverage: Code coverage is a measure used in software testing. It describes the degree to which the source code of a program has been tested. It is a form of testing that inspects the code directly and is therefore a form of white box testing. In time, the use of code coverage has been extended to the field of digital hardware, the contemporary design methodology of which relies on hardware description languages (HDLs).
Confederate States of America: The Confederate States of America (also called the Confederacy, the Confederate States, and the CSA) was the government set up from 1861 to 1865 by eleven southern slave states of the United States of America that had declared their secession from the U.S. The CSA's de facto control over its claimed territory varied during the course of the American Civil War, depending on the success of its military in battle.
Cruiser: Cruiser is a type of large warship, which had its prime period from the late 19th century to the end of the Cold War. The first cruisers were intended for individual raiding and protection missions on the seas. Over the years, the nature and role of the cruiser has changed considerably, and today the cruiser has largely been replaced by destroyers in its roles. Historically, a 'cruiser' was not a type of ship but a warship role.
Control theory: Control theory is an interdisciplinary branch of engineering and mathematics, that deals with the behavior of dynamical systems. The desired output of a system is called the reference. When one or more output variables of a system need to follow a certain reference over time, a controller manipulates the inputs to a system to obtain the desired effect on the output of the system.
Chlamydia infection: Chlamydia infection (from the Greek, meaning "cloak") is a common sexually transmitted infection (STI) in humans caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. The term Chlamydia infection can also refer to infection caused by any species belonging to the bacterial family Chlamydiaceae. C. trachomatis is found only in humans. Chlamydia is a major infectious cause of human genital and eye disease.
Candidiasis: Candidiasis or thrush is a fungal infection (mycosis) of any of the Candida species, of which Candida albicans is the most common. Candidiasis encompasses infections that range from superficial, such as oral thrush and vaginitis, to systemic and potentially life-threatening diseases. Candida infections of the latter category are also referred to as candidemia and are usually confined to severely immunocompromised persons, such as cancer, transplant, and AIDS patients.
Cracking joints: Cracking joints is the action of moving joints to produce a sharp cracking or popping sound. The most common form of this occurs during deliberate knuckle cracking. It is possible to crack many other joints, such as those between the back and neck vertebrae, hips, wrists, elbows, shoulders, toes, knees, jaws, and the Achilles tendon area.
Chemical formula: A chemical formula or molecular formula is a way of expressing information about the atoms that constitute a particular chemical compound. The chemical formula identifies each constituent element by its chemical symbol and indicates the number of atoms of each element found in each discrete molecule of that compound.
Concorde: The Aospatiale-BAC Concorde aircraft is a turbojet-powered supersonic passenger airliner, a supersonic transport (SST), which flew from 1969 to 2003. It was a product of an Anglo-French government treaty, combining the manufacturing efforts of Aospatiale and the British Aircraft Corporation. (The French word translates to the English as agreement, harmony, or union. ) Concorde entered service with Air France and British Airways in 1976.
Beetle: Beetles are the group of insects with the largest number of known species. They are classified in the order Coleoptera (from Greek , koleos, "sheath"; and , pteron, "wing", thus "sheathed wing"), which contains more described species than in any other order in the animal kingdom, constituting about 25% of all known life-forms. About 40% of all described insect species are beetles (about 350,000 species), and new species are frequently discovered.
Cannon: A cannon is any piece of artillery that uses gunpowder or other usually explosive-based propellants to launch a projectile. Cannon vary in caliber, range, mobility, rate of fire, angle of fire, and firepower; different forms of cannon combine and balance these attributes in varying degrees, depending on their intended use on the battlefield. The word cannon is derived from several languages, in which the original definition can usually be translated as tube, cane, or reed.
Mouse computing: In computing, a mouse (plural mice, mouses, or mouse devices. ) is a pointing device that functions by detecting two-dimensional motion relative to its supporting surface. Physically, a mouse consists of an object held under one of the user's hands, with one or more buttons. It sometimes features other elements, such as "wheels", which allow the user to perform various system-dependent operations, or extra buttons or features can add more control or dimensional input.
Civil defense: Civil defense, civil defence or civil protection is an effort to prepare non-combatants for military attack. It uses the principles of emergency operations: prevention, mitigation, preparation, response, or emergency evacuation, and recovery. Programmes of this sort were initially discussed at least as early as the 1920s but only became widespread after the threat of nuclear weapons was realized.
Chymotrypsin: Chymotrypsin is a digestive enzyme that can perform proteolysis. Chymotrypsin preferentially cleaves peptide amide bonds where the carboxyl side of amide bond (the S1 position) is a tyrosine, tryptophan, or phenylalanine. These amino acids contain an aromatic ring in their sidechain that fits into a 'hydrophobic pocket' (the P1 position) of the enzyme.
Catapult: A catapult is a device used to throw or hurl a projectile a great distance without the aid of explosive devicesparticularly various types of ancient and medieval siege engines. Although the catapult has been used since ancient times, it has proven to be one of the most effective mechanisms during warfare. The word 'Catapult' comes from the two Greek words "kata" (downward) and "pultos" (a small circular battle shield). Katapultos was then taken to mean "shield piercer".
Cinquain: Cinquain is the general term applied to poetic forms using a 5-line pattern. There are specific forms within that category that are defined by specific rules and guidelines.
History of the Cook Islands: The Cook Islands are named from a Russian naval chart published in St Petersburg in 1823-26, after Captain James Cook, who visited the islands in 1773 and 1777. The Cook Islands became a British protectorate in 1888. By 1900, administrative control was transferred to New Zealand; in 1965 residents chose self-government in free association with New Zealand. The Cook Islands contain fifteen islands in the group spread over a vast area in the South Pacific.
Cook Islands: The Cook Islands /k lndz/ are a self-governing parliamentary democracy in free association with New Zealand. The fifteen small islands in this South Pacific Ocean country have a total land area of 240 square kilometres, but the Cook Islands Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) covers 1.8 million square kilometres of ocean. The main population centres are on the island of Rarotonga (14,153 as of 2006), where there is an international airport.
Geography of the Cook Islands: The Cook Islands can be divided into two groups: the Southern Cook Islands and the Northern Cook Islands.
Demographics of the Cook Islands: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Cook Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of the Cook Islands: The politics of the Cook Islands, an associated state, takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democracy within a constitutional monarchy. The Queen of New Zealand, represented in the Cook Islands by the Queen's Representative, is the Head of State; the Chief Minister is the head of government and of a multi-party system. The Islands are self-governing in free association with New Zealand and are fully responsible for internal affairs.
Economy of the Cook Islands: The Economy of the Cook Islands, as in many other South Pacific island nations, is hindered by the isolation of the country from foreign markets, lack of natural resources, periodic devastation from natural disasters, and inadequate infrastructure. Agriculture provides the economic base with major exports made up of copra and citrus fruit. Manufacturing activities are limited to fruit-processing, clothing, and handicrafts.
Computer file: A computer file is a block of arbitrary information, or resource for storing information, which is available to a computer program and is usually based on some kind of durable storage. A file is durable in the sense that it remains available for programs to use after the current program has finished. Computer files can be considered as the modern counterpart of paper documents which traditionally are kept in offices' and libraries' files, and this is the source of the term.
Transport in the Cook Islands: This article lists transport in the Cook Islands. Railways 0.1 km Highways Total: 320 km Paved: 33 km Unpaved: 287 km (2003 est. ) Ports and harbours Avarua, Avatiu Merchant marine Total: 1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totalling 2,310 GRT/2,181 metric tons deadweight (DWT) Ships by type: Cargo 1 (1999 est. ) Airports 7 (1999 est. ) Airports - with paved runways Total: 2 1,524 to 2,437 m: 1 (1999 est. ) Airports - with unpaved runways Total: 6 1,524 to 2,437 m: 3 914 to 1,523 m: 3 (1999 est.)
Telecommunications in the Cook Islands: This article lists communications in the Cook Islands. Telephones - main lines in use 6,200 (2003 est. ) Telephones - mobile cellular 0 (1994) In phase of installation of GSM infrastructure (2003) GSM 900MHz cellular network in place (2004).
Christian Doppler: Christian Johann Doppler (29 November 1803 - 17 March 1853) was an Austrian mathematician and physicist. He is most famous for what is now called the Doppler effect, which is the apparent change in frequency and wavelength of a wave as perceived by an observer moving relative to the wave's source.
Clerihew: A clerihew is a whimsical, four-line biographical poem invented by Edmund Clerihew Bentley. The lines are comically irregular in length, and the rhymes, often contrived, are structured AABB. One of his best known is this (1905): Sir Christopher Wren Went to dine with some men He said, "If anyone calls, Say I'm designing Saint Paul's.
CID: CID may refer to: In criminal investigation: Crime Investigation Department, the branch of all British Police and many other Commonwealth police forces to which plain clothes detectives belong United States Army Criminal Investigation Command (USACIDC), of which the operations division is commonly abbreviated to CID. IRS Criminal Investigation Division, agency investigation violations of the U.S.
Civil war: A civil war is a war between organized groups within a single nation state, or, less commonly, between two nations created from a formerly-united nation state. The aim of one side may be to take control of the nation or a region, to achieve independence for a region, or to change government policies. It is high-intensity conflict, often involving regular armed forces, that is sustained, organized and large-scale.
List of cryptographers: See also: for an exhaustive list.
Cornet: The cornet is a brass instrument very similar to the trumpet, distinguished by its conical bore, compact shape, and mellower tone quality. The most common cornet is a transposing instrument in B. It is not related to the medieval cornett or cornetto.
CAMP: CAMP may stand for: Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) Cathelicidin antimicrobial peptide Campaign Against Marijuana Planting Central Atlantic Magmatic Province CAMP, an Italian manufacturer of climbing equipment. CAMP (band), a Swiss indie rock band CAMP-phenomenon, a diagnostic method in microbiology, named after Christie, Atkins and Munch-Petersen CAMP, Crash Avoidance Metrics Partnership CAMP, Center for Advanced Molecular Photovoltaics
CGMP: CGMP is an initialism. It can refer to: cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) current good manufacturing practice (cGMP) CGMP, the Cisco version of the Internet Group Management Protocol snooping
Cotton Mather: Cotton Mather (February 12, 1663 - February 13, 1728; A.B. 1678, Harvard College; A.M. 1681, honorary doctorate 1710, University of Glasgow) was a socially and politically influential New England Puritan minister, prolific author and pamphleteer; he is often remembered for his connection to the Salem witch trials. He was the son of Increase Mather, and grandson of Richard Mather, both also prominent Puritan ministers.
Cordwainer Smith: Cordwainer Smith - pronounced CORDwainer - was the pseudonym used by American author Paul Myron Anthony Linebarger (July 11, 1913-August 6, 1966) for his science fiction works. Linebarger was a noted East Asia scholar and expert in psychological warfare. Linebarger also employed the literary pseudonyms "Carmichael Smith" (for his political thriller Atomsk), "Anthony Bearden" and "Felix C. Forrest" (for the novels Ria and Carola).
CSS disambiguation: CSS may stand for:
Colorado Front Range: The Colorado Front Range is a colloquial geographic term for the most populous region of the state of Colorado in the United States. The area is located just east of the foothills of the Front Range, aligned in a north-south configuration on the western edge of the Great Plains, where they meet the Rockies. Geologically, the region lies mostly within the Colorado Piedmont, in the valley of the South Platte and Arkansas rivers on the east side of the Rockies.
Churnsike Lodge: Churnsike Lodge was an early Victorian hunting lodge situated in West Northumberland, England, near Gilsland and Greenhead. It was built in 1850.
William Kidd: William "Captain" Kidd (c. 1645 - May 23, 1701) was a Scottish sailor remembered for his trial and execution for piracy after returning from a voyage to the Indian Ocean. Some modern historians deem his piratical reputation unjust, as there is evidence that Kidd acted only as a privateer. Kidd's fame springs largely from the sensational circumstances of his questioning before the English Parliament and the ensuing trial.
Chocolate: Chocolate (or /-lt/) comprises a number of raw and processed foods produced from the seed of the tropical Theobroma cacao tree. Cacao has been cultivated for at least three millennia in Mexico, Central and South America, with its earliest documented use around 1100 BC. The majority of the Mesoamerican peoples made chocolate beverages, including the Aztecs, who made it into a beverage known as xocoltl, a Nahuatl word meaning "bitter water".
Calreticulin: Calreticulin is a multifunctional protein that binds Ca ions, rendering it inactive. The Ca is bound with low affinity, but high capacity, and can be released on a signal. Calreticulin is located in storage compartments associated with the endoplasmic reticulum. Calreticulin is also known as calregulin, CRP55, CaBP3 and calsequestrin-like protein. The term "Mobilferrin" is considered to be the same as calreticulin by some sources.
Calendar date: A date in a calendar is a reference to a particular day represented within a calendar system. The calendar date allows the specific day to be identified. The number of days between two dates may be calculated. For example, "24 April 2010" is ten days after "14 April 2010" in the Gregorian calendar. The date of a particular event depends on the observed UTC offset.
Center group theory: In abstract algebra, the center of a group G, denoted Z(G), is the set of elements that commute with every element of G. In set-builder notation, . The center is a subgroup of G, which by definition is abelian (that is commutative). As a subgroup, it is always normal, and indeed characteristic, but it need not be fully characteristic. The quotient group G / Z(G) is isomorphic to the group of inner automorphisms of G. A group G is abelian if and only if Z(G) = G.
Cist: A cist or kist, from the Greek: , is a small stone-built coffin-like box or ossuary used to hold the bodies of the dead. Examples can be found all over the world. A cist may have been associated with other monuments, perhaps under a cairn or long barrow. It would not be uncommon to find several cists close together within the same cairn or barrow. Often ornaments have been found within an excavated cist, indicating the wealth or prominence of the interred individual.
Crann g: A crann is an artificial island, usually built in lakes, rivers and estuarine waters, and most often used as an island settlement or dwelling place in prehistoric or medieval times. The name may refer to a wooden platform erected on shallow floors, but few remains of this can be found. Today, crannogs typically appear as small, circular islands, 10-30m in diameter, covered in trees and bushes because they are isolated from browsing livestock.
Commonwealth of England: The Commonwealth of England was the republic which ruled first England, and then Ireland and Scotland from 1649 to 1660. Between 1653-1659 it was known as the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland. After the English Civil War and the regicide of Charles I, the republic's existence was initially declared by ' by the Rump Parliament, on 19 May 1649. Executive power had already been entrusted to a Council of State.
Charles Evers: James Charles Evers (born September 11, 1922) is an important civil rights advocate in the United States. The older brother of civil rights martyr Medgar Evers, Charles Evers is a leading civil rights spokesman within the Republican Party in his native Mississippi. He was the first African American elected since the Reconstruction era as mayor in a Mississippi city, in Fayette in 1969. He ran for governor in 1971 and the United States Senate in 1978, both times as an independent.
Code division multiple access: Code division multiple access (CDMA) is a channel access method utilized by various radio communication technologies. It should not be confused with the mobile phone standards called cdmaOne and CDMA2000 (which are often referred to as simply "CDMA"), which use CDMA as an underlying channel access method. One of the basic concepts in data communication is the idea of allowing several transmitters to send information simultaneously over a single communication channel.
Canadian whisky: Canadian whisky is whisky produced in Canada. According to the laws of Canada, a Canadian whisky must be mashed, distilled and aged in Canada. All whiskies sold in Canada must be aged for at least three years in a wooden barrel of not greater than 700 L capacity.
Chambered cairn: A chambered cairn is a burial monument, usually constructed during the Neolithic, consisting of a cairn of stones inside which a sizeable (usually stone) chamber was constructed. Some chambered cairns are also passage-graves. Typically, the chamber is larger than a cist, and will contain a larger number of interments, which are either excarnated bones or inhumations (cremations). Most were situated near a settlement, and served as that community's "graveyard".
Collective noun: In linguistics, a collective noun is a word used to define a group of objects, where objects can be people, animals, emotions, inanimate things, concepts, or other things. For example, in the phrase "a pride of lions," pride is a collective noun. Most collective nouns encountered in such as "group," are mundane and are not specific to one kind of constituent object. For example, the terms "group of people," "group of dogs," and "group of ideas" are all correct uses.
Content-control software: Content-control software, also known as censorware or web filtering software, is a term for software designed and optimized for controlling what content is permitted to a reader, especially when it is used to restrict material delivered over the Web. Content-control software determines what content will be available.
Tramlink: Tramlink (originally and sometimes still called Croydon Tramlink) is a tramway system in south London in the United Kingdom which began operation in May 2000. The service is operated by London Tramlink, part of Transport for London (TfL). Tramlink serves seven National Rail stations but has only one interchange with London Underground; one of the factors leading to its creation was that the area around Croydon has no Underground service.
Carat mass: The carat is a unit of mass equal to 200 mg, and it is used for measuring gemstones and pearls. The current definition, sometimes known as the metric carat, was adopted in 1907 at the Fourth General Conference on Weights and Measures, and soon afterwards in many countries around the world. The carat is divisible into one hundred points of two milligrams each. Other subdivisions, and slightly different mass values, have been used in the past in different locations.
Catenary: In physics and geometry, the catenary is the curve that an idealised hanging chain or cable assumes when supported at its ends and acted on only by its own weight. The curve is the graph of the hyperbolic cosine function, and has a U-like shape, superficially similar in appearance to a parabola (though mathematically quite different). Its surface of revolution, the catenoid, is a minimal surface and is the shape assumed by a soap film bounded by two parallel circular rings.
Color temperature: Color temperature is a characteristic of visible light that has important applications in lighting, photography, videography, publishing, manufacturing, astrophysics, and other fields. The color temperature of a light source is the temperature of an ideal black-body radiator that radiates light of comparable hue to that light source. The temperature is conventionally stated in units of absolute temperature, kelvin (K). Color temperature is related to Planck's law and to Wien's displacement law.
Cartoon: The word cartoon has various meanings, based on several very different forms of visual art and illustration. The artists who draw cartoons are known as cartoonists. The term has evolved over time. The original meaning was in fine art, where cartoon meant a preparatory drawing for a piece of art, such as a painting or tapestry. The modern meaning refers to both humorous illustrations in print and animated films.
Chief Minister of the Northern Territory: The Chief Minister of the Northern Territory is appointed by the Administrator, who in normal circumstances will appoint the head of whatever party holds the majority of seats in the legislature of the territory. However, in times of constitutional crisis the Administrator can appoint someone else as Chief Minister. The incumbent Chief Minister of the Northern Territory is Paul Henderson, representing the Australian Labor Party since 2007.
European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations: The European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT) was established on June 26, 1959 as a coordinating body for European state telecommunications and postal organizations. The acronym comes from the French version of its name Confence europnne des administrations des postes et des tommunications. CEPT was responsible for the creation of the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) in 1988.
Collectible card game: A collectible card game (CCG), also called a trading card game (TCG) or customizable card game, is a game played using specially designed sets of playing cards. While trading cards have been around for longer, CCGs combine the appeal of collecting with strategic gameplay. The modern concept of CCG games was first presented in ', designed by Richard Garfield and published by Wizards of the Coast in 1993.
Chinese historiography: Chinese historiography refers to the study of methods and assumptions made in studying Chinese history.
Communist Party of China: The Communist Party of China (CPC), also known as the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), is the founding and the ruling political party of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and is one of the world's largest political parties. While not a governing body recognized by the PRC's constitution, the CPC's position as the supreme political authority and power in the PRC is realized through its control of all state apparatuses and of the legislative process.
Chemotherapy: Chemotherapy, in its most general sense, is the treatment of disease by chemicals especially by killing micro-organisms or cancerous cells. In popular usage, it refers to antineoplastic drugs used to treat cancer or the combination of these drugs into a cytotoxic standardized treatment regimen. In its non-oncological use, the term may also refer to antibiotics (antibacterial chemotherapy).
Cary Elwes: Ivan Simon Cary Elwes (born 26 October 1962), known professionally as Cary Elwes, is an English actor, known for his performances in Lady Jane, The Princess Bride, ', Hot Shots!, Glory, Liar Liar, Saw and Twister.
Carol Kane: Carolyn Laurie "Carol" Kane (born June 18, 1952) is an American actress, known for her work on stage, screen and television.
Christopher Guest: Christopher Haden-Guest, 5th Baron Haden-Guest (born February 5, 1948), better known as Christopher Guest, is a British-American screenwriter, composer, musician, director, actor and comedian. He is most widely known in Hollywood for having written, directed and starred in several "mockumentary" films that feature a repertory-like ensemble cast.
Chris Sarandon: Christopher Sarandon (born July 24, 1942) is an American actor. He played Prince Humperdinck in the film The Princess Bride, the vampire Jerry Dandridge in Fright Night, Detective Mike Norris in the first entry of the Child's Play series, and provided the speaking voice of Jack Skellington from The Nightmare Before Christmas. He was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance as Leon in Dog Day Afternoon.
Cryogenics: In physics, cryogenics is the study of the production of very low temperature (below 150 , 238 or 123 K) and the behavior of materials at those temperatures. Rather than the familiar temperature scales of Fahrenheit and Celsius, cryogenicists use the Kelvin scales. A person who studies elements under extremely cold temperature is called a cryogenicist.
Chick Publications Inc.: Chick Publications is an American publishing company founded and run by Jack T. Chick which produces and markets Protestant fundamentalist pamphlets, DVDs, VCDs, videos, books, and posters. Chick Publications' best-known products are Chick tracts, which are comic tracts that are available in nearly 100 languages. Arguably all of its products promote and seek to win converts to Christian fundamentalism. While the tracts express views that are generally accepted within Christian theology, e.g.
C*-algebra: C*-algebras (pronounced "C-star") are an important area of research in functional analysis, a branch of mathematics. The prototypical example of a C*-algebra is a complex algebra A of linear operators on a complex Hilbert space with two additional properties: A is a topologically closed set in the norm topology of operators. A is closed under the operation of taking adjoints of operators.
Carme moon: Carme (or as in Greek ) is a retrograde irregular satellite of Jupiter. It was discovered by Seth Barnes Nicholson at Mount Wilson Observatory in California in July 1938. It is named after the mythological Carme, mother by Zeus of Britomartis, a Cretan goddess. Carme did not receive its present name until 1975; before then, it was simply known as Jupiter XI. It was sometimes called "Pan" between 1955 and 1975. Note that Pan is now the name of a satellite of Saturn.
Commutator: In mathematics, the commutator gives an indication of the extent to which a certain binary operation fails to be commutative. There are different definitions used in group theory and ring theory.
The Compton Effect album: The Compton Effect is the second album from rapper Greydon Square. The title is a reference to the Compton effect in physics (Greydon's undergraduate field of study), as well as the city of Compton, California, from which the artist originates.
Cairn: A cairn is a manmade pile of stones, often in a conical form. They are usually found in uplands, on moorland, on mountaintops or near waterways.
Characteristic subgroup: In mathematics, particularly in the area of abstract algebra known as group theory, a characteristic subgroup is a subgroup that is invariant under all automorphisms of the parent group. Because conjugation is an automorphism, every characteristic subgroup is normal, though not every normal subgroup is characteristic. Examples of characteristic subgroups include the commutator subgroup and the center of a group.
List of cat breeds: The following list of cat breeds includes domestic cat breeds and domestic/wild hybrids. The list includes established breeds recognized by various cat registries, new and experimental breeds, distinct domestic population not being actively developed and lapsed breeds. Inconsistency in breed classification among registries means that an individual animal may be considered different breeds by different registries.
Class action: In law, a class action or a representative action is a form of lawsuit where a large group of people collectively bring a claim to court. This form of collective lawsuit originated in the United States and is still predominantly a U.S. phenomenon, at least the U.S. variant of it. However, in several European countries with civil law different from the English common law principle (which is used by U.S.
London Borough of Croydon: The London Borough of Croydon is a London borough in South London, England and is part of Outer London. It covers an area of 87 km (33.6 sq mi) and is the largest London borough by population. It is the southernmost borough of London. The borough is now one of London's leading business, financial and cultural centres, and its influence in entertainment and the arts contribute to its status as a major metropolitan centre.
Contempt of court: Contempt of court is a court order which, in the context of a court trial or hearing, declares a person or organization to have disobeyed or been disrespectful of the court's authority. Often referred to simply as "contempt", such as a person "held in contempt", it is the judge's strongest power to impose sanctions for acts which disrupt the court's normal process.
Celtic mythology: Celtic mythology is the mythology of Celtic polytheism, apparently the religion of the Iron Age Celts. Like other Iron Age Europeans, the early Celts maintained a polytheistic mythology and religious structure. Among Celts in close contact with Ancient Rome, such as the Gauls and Celtiberians, their mythology did not survive the Roman empire, their subsequent conversion to Christianity, and the loss of their Celtic languages.
Corroborating evidence: Corroborating evidence is evidence that tends to support a proposition that is already supported by some evidence. For example, W, a witness, testifies that she saw X drive his automobile into a green car. Y, another witness, testifies that when he examined X's car later that day he noticed green paint on its fender. For more information on this type of reasoning see casuistry. Another type of corroborating evidence comes from using the Baconian method, i.e.
Cross-examination: In law, cross-examination is the interrogation of a witness called by one's opponent. It is preceded by direct examination and may be followed by a redirect. While in the United States Federal courts, cross-examining attorney is typically not permitted to ask questions which do not pertain to the testimony offered during direct examination, most State courts do permit a lawyer to cross-examine a witness on matters not raised during direct examination.
Christiania: Christiania may refer to: Christiania or Kristiania, names of Oslo (1624-1924) Christiania Township, Jackson County, Minnesota Christiania Township, Burleigh County, North Dakota Freetown Christiania, neighborhood of Copenhagen, Denmark Christiania Theatre in Christiania, Norway Christiania Bank Christiania (brachiopod), family of Strophomenids in Arenig geological group
Charles d'Abancour: Charles Xavier Joseph de Franque Ville d'Abancour (4 July 1758 in Douai - 9 September 1792 in Versailles) was a French statesman, minister to Louis XVI and a nephew of Charles Alexandre de Calonne.
Claudius Aelianus: Claudius Aelianus (ca. 175-ca. 235), often seen as just Aelian, born at Praeneste, was a Roman author and teacher of rhetoric who flourished under Septimius Severus and probably outlived Elagabalus, who died in 222. He spoke Greek so perfectly that he was called "honey-tongued" (meliglossos); Roman-born, he preferred Greek authors, and wrote in a slightly archaizing Greek himself.
Creed: A creed is a statement of beliefusually religious belief or faithoften recited as part of a religious service. The word derives from the Latin: credo for I believe (because the Latin translation of the Apostles' Creed and the Nicene Creed both begin with this word). A creed is sometimes referred to as a symbol, signifying a "token" by which persons of like beliefs might recognize each other.
Callisto mythology: In Greek mythology, Callisto was a nymph of Artemis. Transformed into a bear and set among the stars, she was the bear-mother of the Arcadians, through her son Arcas.
Curtiss P-40: The Curtiss P-40 was an American single-engine, single-seat, all-metal fighter and ground attack aircraft that first flew in 1938. It was used by the air forces of 28 nations, including those of most Allied powers during World War II, and remained in front line service until the end of the war. By November 1944, when production of the P-40 ceased, 13,738 had been built, all at Curtiss-Wright Corporation's main production facility at Buffalo, New York.
Common Gateway Interface: The Common Gateway Interface (CGI) is a standard protocol that defines how webserver software can delegate the generation of webpages to a console application. Such applications are known as CGI scripts; they can be written in any programming language, although scripting languages are often used.
Cookie: In the United States and Canada, a cookie is a small, flat-baked treat, usually containing fat, flour, eggs and sugar. In most English-speaking countries outside North America, the most common word for this is biscuit; in many regions both terms are used, while in others the two words have different meaningsa cookie is a plain bun in Scotland, while in the United States a biscuit is a kind of quick bread similar to a scone.
Cyrus Griffin: Cyrus Griffin (July 16, 1749 - December 14, 1810) was a lawyer and judge who served as the last President of the Continental Congress, holding office from January 22, 1788, to November 2, 1788. He resigned after the ratification of the United States Constitution rendered the old Congress obsolete. Griffin was born in Farnham, Virginia, in 1749. He was educated in England and in Scotland at the University of Edinburgh.
Computer-generated imagery: Computer-generated imagery (also known as CGI) is the application of the field of computer graphics or, more specifically, 3D computer graphics to special effects in films, television programs, commercials, simulators and simulation generally, and printed media. Video games usually use real-time computer graphics (rarely referred to as CGI), but may also include pre-rendered "cut scenes" and intro movies that would be typical CGI applications. These are sometimes referred to as FMV.
Calypso: Calypso is the name of one of the Nereids (sea nymphs) in Greek mythology. The word may also refer to:
Chemical affinity: In chemical physics and physical chemistry, chemical affinity is the electronic property by which dissimilar chemical species are capable of forming chemical compounds. Chemical affinity can also refer to the tendency of an atom or compound to combine by chemical reaction with atoms or compounds of unlike composition. According to chemistry historian Henry Leicester, the influential 1923 textbook Thermodynamics and the Free Energy of Chemical Reactions by Gilbert N.
Comet Hale-Bopp: Comet Hale-Bopp was arguably the most widely observed comet of the twentieth century, and one of the brightest seen for many decades. It was visible to the naked eye for a record 18 months, twice as long as the previous record holder, the Great Comet of 1811. Hale-Bopp was discovered on July 23, 1995 at a great distance from the Sun, raising expectations that the comet would brighten considerably by the time it passed close to Earth.
Conspiracy: Conspiracy, conspirator or conspire may refer to:
Cytoprotectant: A cytoprotectant is any medication that combats ulcers not by reducing gastric acid but by increasing mucosal protection. Drugs that work in this manner include carbenoxolone, deglycyrrhizinised liquorice, sucralfate (aluminium hydroxide and sulphated sucrose), misoprostol and bismuth chelate (tri-potassium di-citrato bismuthate). Pregnant women should avoid as they can cause miscarriages. Misoprostol is used in South Africa as an abortifacent, despite not being registered for this use.
Choctaw: The Choctaw are a Native American people originally from the Southeastern United States. They are of the Muskogean linguistic group. The word Choctaw (alternatively spelt as Chahta, Chactas, Chato, Tchakta, and Chocktaw) may derive from the Castilian word chato, meaning "flat". Noted 20th century anthropologist John Swanton suggested that the name was derived from a Choctaw leader.
Constant n mac Cin eda: Causantn or Constantn mac Cinda (Modern Gaelic Cseam mac Choinnich) (died 877), was a king of the Picts. He is often known as Constantine I, in reference to his place in modern lists of kings of Scots, though contemporary sources described Constantn only as a Pictish king. A son of Cind mac Ailpn ("Kenneth MacAlpin"), he succeeded his uncle Domnall mac Ailpn as Pictish king following the latter's death on 13 April 862.
Cholistan Desert: Cholistan Desert, also locally known as Rohi) sprawls thirty kilometers from Bahawalpur, Punjab, Pakistan and covers an area of 16,000 km. It adjoins the Thar Desert extending over to Sindh and into India. The word Cholistan is derived from the Turkish word Chol, which means Desert. Cholistan thus means Land of the Desert. The people of Cholistan lead a semi-nomadic life, moving from one place to another in search of water and fodder for their animals.
Constantine II emperor: Flavius Claudius Constantinus, known in English as Constantine II, (316-340) was Roman Emperor from 337 to 340. The eldest son of Constantine the Great and Fausta, he was born at Arles and raised as a Christian. On March 1 317, Constantine was made Caesar, and at the age of seven in 323, took part in his father's campaign against the Sarmatians. At the age of ten he became commander of Gaul, after the death of his half-brother Crispus.
Common Language Infrastructure: The Common Language Infrastructure (CLI) is an open specification (published under ECMA-335 and ISO/IEC 23271) developed by Microsoft that describes the executable code and runtime environment that form the core of the Microsoft . NET Framework and the free and open source implementations Mono and Portable. NET. The specification defines an environment that allows multiple high-level languages to be used on different computer platforms without being rewritten for specific architectures.
Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting: The Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting, abbreviated to CHOGM, is a summit meeting of the heads of government from all Commonwealth nations. Every two years the meeting is held in a different member state, and is chaired by that nation's respective Prime Minister or President, who becomes the Commonwealth Chairperson-in-Office. Recently, meetings have been attended by Queen Elizabeth II, who is the Head of the Commonwealth, although the Queen's formal appearance only began in 1997.
Cricket World Cup: The Cricket World Cup is the premier international championship of men's One Day International (ODI) cricket. The event is organised by the sport's governing body, the International Cricket Council (ICC), with preliminary qualification rounds leading up to a finals tournament which is held every four years. The tournament is the world's fourth largest and most viewed sporting event. According to the ICC, it is the most important tournament and the pinnacle of achievement in the sport.
Constantine II of Scotland: Constantine, son of d was an early King of Scotland, known then by the Gaelic name Alba. The Kingdom of Alba, a name which first appears in Constantine's lifetime, was in northern Britain. The core of the kingdom was formed by the lands around the River Tay. Its southern limit was the River Forth, northwards it extended towards the Moray Firth and perhaps to Caithness, while its western limits are uncertain.
Constantine I: Caesar Flavius Valerius Aurelius Constantinus Augustus (27 February c. 272 - 22 May 337), commonly known in English as Constantine I, Constantine the Great, or Saint Constantine, was Roman emperor from 306, and the sole holder of that office from 324 until his death in 337.
Call centre: A call centre or call center is a centralised office used for the purpose of receiving and transmitting a large volume of requests by telephone. A call centre is operated by a company to administer incoming product support or information inquiries from consumers. Outgoing calls for telemarketing, clientele, product services, and debt collection are also made. In addition to a call centre, collective handling of letters, faxes, live chat, and e-mails at one location is known as a contact centre.
Charles Messier: Charles Messier (26 June 1730 - 12 April 1817) was a French astronomer most notable for publishing an astronomical catalogue consisting of deep sky objects such as nebulae and star clusters that came to be known as the 103 "Messier objects". The purpose of the catalogue was to help astronomical observers, in particular comet hunters such as himself, distinguish between permanent and transient objects in the sky.
Chinese classics: Chinese classic texts or Chinese canonical texts refer to the pre-Qin Chinese texts, especially the Confucian Four Books and Five Classics (). All of these pre-Qin text were written in classical Chinese. They can be referred to as jing (). More broadly speaking, Chinese classic texts may refer to texts, be they written in vernacular Chinese or in classical Chinese, that existed before 1912, when the last imperial Chinese dynasty, the Qing Dynasty, fell.
Corrado Gini: Corrado Gini (May 23, 1884 - March 13, 1965) was an Italian statistician, demographer and sociologist who developed the Gini coefficient, a measure of the income inequality in a society. Gini was also a leading fascist theorist and ideologue who wrote The Scientific Basis of Fascism in 1927.
Cemetery H culture: The Cemetery H culture developed out of the northern part of the Indus Valley Civilization around 1900 BCE, in and around western Punjab region located in present-day India and Pakistan. It was named after a cemetery found in "area H" at Harappa. The Cemetery H culture is part of the Punjab Phase, one of three cultural phases that developed in the Localization Era of the Indus Valley Tradition. It is considered to be part of the Late Harrappan phase.
Caliph: The Caliph is the head of state in a Caliphate, and the title for the leader of the Islamic Ummah, an Islamic community ruled by the Shari'ah. It is a transcribed version of the Arabic word Khalfah which means "successor" or "representative". The early leaders of the Muslim nation following Muhammad's (570-632) death were called "Khalifat Rasul Allah", the political successors to the messenger of God (referring to Muhammad). Some academics prefer to transliterate the term as Khalfah.
Crankshaft: The crankshaft, sometimes casually abbreviated to crank, is the part of an engine which translates reciprocating linear piston motion into rotation. To convert the reciprocating motion into rotation, the crankshaft has "crank throws" or "crankpins", additional bearing surfaces whose axis is offset from that of the crank, to which the "big ends" of the connecting rods from each cylinder attach.
Central nervous system: The central nervous system (CNS) is the part of the nervous system that coordinates the activity of all parts of the bodies of bilaterian animalsthat is, all multicellular animals except sponges and radially symmetric animals such as jellyfish. In vertebrates, the central nervous system is enclosed in the meninges. It contains the majority of the nervous system and consists of the brain and the spinal cord.
Cell cycle: The cell cycle, or cell-division cycle, is the series of events that takes place in a cell leading to its division and duplication (replication). In cells without a nucleus, the cell cycle occurs via a process termed binary fission.
Cartesian: Cartesian means of or relating to the French philosopher and mathematician Ren Descartes- from his name- Rene Des-Cartes.
Creation: Creation may refer to:
Caste: A caste is a combined social system of, endogamy, culture, social class, and political power. Caste should not be confused with class, in that members of a caste are deemed to be alike in function or culture, whereas not all members of a defined class may be so alike. Although Indian society is often now associated with the word "caste", it was first used by the Portuguese to describe inherited class status in their own European society.
Connection dance: Connection is essential to all partner dancing and is the primary means to communicate synchronized dance movement between the lead and follow. It is especially important in Argentine Tango, Lindy Hop, Balboa, East Coast Swing, West Coast Swing, Salsa, Contra dance, Modern Jive and other styles of partner dance. Other forms of communication, such as visual cues or spoken cues, are often considered to spoil the dance, unless used in specific circumstances, e.g.
Collegiate shag: The Collegiate Shag (or "Shag") is a partner dance done primarily to upper tempo jazz music. It belongs to the swing family of American vernacular dances that arose in the 1920s, 30s, and 40s.
Rhyming slang: Rhyming slang is a form of slang in spoken and written English in which a word is replaced by a rhyming word, typically the last word of a two- or three-word phrase with the effect that the meaning of the spoken or written words is not obvious to receivers who are not familiar with the code. Examples that are frequently quoted include "frog and toad" meaning "road", and "apples and pears" meaning "stairs".
Canchim: The Canchim breed is a breed of beef cattle developed in Central Brazil by crossing European Charolais cattle with Indubrazil cattle already kept in Brazil where Asian Zebu type cattle are best suited to the tropical conditions. When compared with Zebu bulls, Canchim bulls produce the same number of calves, but heavier and of superior quality. Compared to European breeds, the Canchim bull produces calves with the same weight but in larger numbers.
Coral 66: CORAL (Computer On-line Real-time Applications Language) is a programming language originally developed in 1964 at the Royal Radar Establishment (RRE), Malvern, UK, as a subset of JOVIAL. Coral 66 was subsequently developed by I. F. Currie and M. Griffiths. Its official definition, edited by Woodward, Wetherall and Gorman, was first published in 1970. Coral 66 is a general-purpose programming language based on Algol 60, with some features from Coral 64, JOVIAL, and FORTRAN.
Characteristic: Characteristic may refer to: In physics and engineering: Any characteristic curve that shows the relationship between certain input and output parameters, e.g.
Central Committee: A central Committee is commonly the central executive unit of a Leninist or Communist party, whether ruling or non-ruling. In a Communist party, the Central Committee is made up of delegates elected at a Party Congress. In those Communist parties historically ruling around a Marxist-Leninist state, the Central Committee makes decisions for the party between congresses, and usually is responsible for electing the Politburo.
Communist Party of the Soviet Union: The Communist Party of the Soviet Union was the only legal, ruling political party in the Soviet Union and one of the largest communist organizations in the world. It lost its dominance in the wake of the failed August 1991 coup d'at attempt led by communist hardliners. It emerged from the Bolshevik faction of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party, under the leadership of Vladimir Lenin.
Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union: The Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, abbreviated in Russian as , "Tse-ka", was the highest body of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU). Its full name was = ; Tsentralniy Komitet Kommunistitcheskoi Partii Sovetskogo Soyuza = TsK KPSS, or the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union = CC CPSU.
Chapter 11 Title 11 United States Code: Chapter 11 is a chapter of the United States Bankruptcy Code, which permits reorganization under the bankruptcy laws of the United States. Chapter 11 bankruptcy is available to every business, whether organized as a corporation or sole proprietorship, and to individuals, although it is most prominently used by corporate entities. In contrast, Chapter 7 governs the process of a liquidation bankruptcy, while Chapter 13 provides a reorganization process for the majority of private individuals.
Chadic languages: The Chadic languages constitute a language family spoken across northern Nigeria, Niger, Chad, Central African Republic and Cameroon, belonging to the Afroasiatic phylum. The most widely spoken Chadic language is Hausa, the lingua franca of much of West Africa.
Christianity and homosexuality: Christian denominations hold a variety of views on the issue of homosexual identity or activity, ranging from outright condemnation to complete affirmation of equality to heterosexual persons. In accordance with the traditional values of Abrahamic religions, some Christian denominations welcome people attracted to the same sex, but often teach that same sex relationships and homosexual sex are sinful.
Cushitic languages: The Cushitic languages are a branch of the Afroasiatic language family spoken in the Horn of Africa, Tanzania, Kenya, Sudan and Egypt. They are named after the Biblical figure Cush by analogy with Shem's being the eponym of Semitic. The most populous Cushitic language is Oromo with about 35 million speakers, followed by Somali with about 15 million speakers, and Sidamo in Ethiopia with about 2 million speakers.
Centromere: A centromere is a region of DNA typically found near the middle of a chromosome where two identical sister chromatids come in contact. It is involved in cell division as the point of mitotic spindle.
Conjugation: Conjugation may refer to: Grammatical conjugation, the modification of a verb from its basic form, including: Latin conjugation Spanish conjugation French conjugation English verb Marriage, relationship between two or more individuals.
Controversy: Controversy is a state of prolonged public dispute or debate, usually concerning a matter of opinion. Sam Cooper coined the word circa 1384 from Latin controversia, as a composite of controversus - "turned in an opposite direction," from contra - "against" - and vertere - to turn, or versus (see), hence, "to turn against. " Perennial areas of controversy include religion, philosophy and politics. Other minor areas of controversy may include economics, science, finances, and race.
Castello: Castello is the Italian word for castle. The Latin word Castellum means reservoir, water tank.
Common preference: Common preference is a term used to describe an everyone wins situation in a number of places: Non-zero sum, in game theory Taking Children Seriously Win-win situation
CuteFTP: CuteFTP is a series of FTP (file transfer) client applications developed by GlobalSCAPE since 1996, with both a Windows-based or Mac-based interface and made for both home and professional use. CuteFTP is used to transfer files between computers and File Transfer Protocol (FTP) servers to publish web pages, download digital images, music, multi-media files and software, and transfer files of any size or type between home and office.
Commodore 64: The Commodore 64 is an 8-bit home computer introduced by Commodore International in January 1982. Volume production started in the spring of 1982, with machines being released on to the market in August at a price of US$ 595. Preceded by the Commodore VIC-20 and Commodore MAX Machine, the C64 features 64 kilobytes of memory with sound and graphics performance that were superior to IBM-compatible computers of that time.
Cardiac glycoside: Cardiac glycosides are drugs used in the treatment of congestive heart failure and cardiac arrhythmia. These glycosides are found as secondary metabolites in several plants, but also in some animals.
Consumption: Consumption may refer to: Economics Use of final goods by a consumer until disposal. Consumption (economics) Consumption function, an economic formula Other Power consumption, in electrical engineering an archaic name for pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) ingestion of food and drink
Cartography: Cartography (in Greek chartis = map and graphein = write) is the study and practice of making geographical maps. Combining science, aesthetics, and technique, cartography builds on the premise that reality can be modeled in ways that communicate spatial information effectively. The fundamental problems of cartography are to: Set the map's agenda and select traits of the object to be mapped. This is the concern of map editing.
Colonialism: Colonialism is the building and maintaining of colonies in one territory by people from another territory. Colonialism is a process whereby sovereignty over the colony is claimed by the metropole and social structure, government and economics within the territory of the colony are changed by the colonists. Colonialism is a certain set of unequal relationships, between metropole and colony and between colonists and the indigenous population.
Colonial: Colonial may refer to: Colonial, of, relating to, or characteristic of a colony Colonial history of the United States, the period of American history from the 1600s to 1776 Colonialism, the extension of political control to new areas Colonial troops, any of various military units recruited from, or used as garrison troops in, colonial territories
Casablanca: Casablanca is a city in western Morocco, located on the Atlantic Ocean. It is the capital of the Greater Casablanca region. With a population of over 3,299,428, Casablanca is Morocco's largest city as well as its chief port. It's also the biggest city in the Maghreb. Casablanca is considered the economic capital of Morocco because it is the heart of Moroccan business; the political capital is Rabat.
Cross: A cross is a geometrical figure consisting of two lines or bars perpendicular to each other, dividing one or two of the lines in half. The lines usually run vertically and horizontally; if they run diagonally, the design is technically termed a saltire. The cross is one of the most ancient human symbols, and is used by many religions, such as Christianity.
Coleco: Coleco was an American company founded in 1932 by Maurice Greenberg as "Connecticut Leather Company". It became a highly successful toy company in the 1980s, known for its mass-produced version of Cabbage Patch Kids dolls and its video game consoles, the Coleco Telstar and ColecoVision.
Coordination complex: In chemistry, a coordination complex or metal complex, is a structure consisting of a central atom or ion (usually metallic), bonded to a surrounding array of molecules or anions. The atom within a ligand that is directly bonded to the central atom or ion is called the donor atom. Polydentate (multiple bonded) ligands can form a chelate complex. A ligand donates at least one pair of electrons to the central atom/ion.
Christian cross: The Christian cross is the best-known religious symbol of Christianity. It is a representation of the instrument of the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. It is related to the crucifix (a cross that includes a representation of Jesus' body) and to the more general family of cross symbols.
ColecoVision: The ColecoVision is Coleco Industries' second generation home video game console which was released in August 1982. The ColecoVision offered arcade-quality graphics and gaming style, and the means to expand the system's basic hardware. Released with a catalog of twelve launch titles, with an additional ten games announced for 1982, approximately 125 titles in total were published as ROM cartridges for the system between 1982 and 1984. River West Brands currently owns the ColecoVision brand name.
Conventional warfare: Conventional warfare is a form of warfare conducted by using conventional military weapons and battlefield tactics between two or more states in open confrontation. The forces on each side are well-defined, and fight using weapons that primarily target the opposing army. It is normally fought using conventional weapons, not chemical, biological, nor nuclear weapons.
Telstar game console: The Telstar is a series of video game consoles produced by Coleco from 1976 to 1978. Starting with Telstar Pong clone based on General Instrument's AY-3-8500 chip in 1976, there were 14 consoles released in the Telstar branded series.
Hypothetical types of biochemistry: The hypothetical types of biochemistry are the different types of speculative biochemistries of alien life forms that differ radically from those known on Earth. It includes biochemistries that use elements other than carbon for its basic structural and physiological functions and/or use solvents other than water. Theories about extraterrestrial life based on these "alternative" biochemistries are common in science fiction.
Chauvinism: Chauvinism,, in its original and primary meaning, is an exaggerated, bellicose patriotism and a blind belief in national superiority and glory. By extension it has come to include an extreme and unreasoning partisanship on behalf of any group to which one belongs, especially when the partisanship includes malice and hatred towards a rival group. Jingoism is the British parallel form of this French word. A contemporary use of the term in English is in the phrase male chauvinism.
Copernican principle: In physical cosmology, the Copernican principle, named after Nicolaus Copernicus, states that the Earth is not in a central, specially favored position. More recently, the principle has been generalized to the relativistic concept that humans are not privileged observers of the universe. In this sense, it is equivalent to the mediocrity principle, with important implications for the philosophy of science.
Crucifix: A crucifix (from Latin cruci fixus meaning " fixed to a cross") is a three-dimensional cross with a representation of Jesus' body, the "corpus". It is a principal symbol of the Christian religion, and one of the commonest forms of the Crucifixion in the arts.
Creation myth: A creation myth or cosmogonic myth is a supernatural story or explanation that describes the beginnings of humanity, earth, life, and the universe, often as a deliberate act by one or more deities. Many creation myths share broadly similar themes. Common motifs include the fractionation of the things of the world from a primordial chaos; the separation of the mother and father gods; and land emerging from an infinite and timeless ocean.
Cyprinidae: The family Cyprinidae, from the Ancient Greek kyprnos (, "carp"), consists of the carps, the true minnows, and their relatives. Commonly called the carp family or the minnow family, its members are also known as cyprinids. It is the largest family of fresh-water fish, with over 2,400 species in about 220 genera. The family belongs to the order Cypriniformes, of whose genera and species the cyprinids make up two-thirds.
Chimera: Chimera, chimaira or chimaera may refer to: Chimera (mythology), a monstrous creature made of the parts of multiple animals Mount Chimaera, the region in Lycia that some believe was an inspiration for the myth
Complementary DNA: In genetics, complementary DNA (cDNA) is DNA synthesized from a mature mRNA template in a reaction catalyzed by the enzyme reverse transcriptase. cDNA is often used to clone eukaryotic genes in prokaryotes. When scientists want to express a specific protein in a cell that does not normally express that protein, they will transfer the cDNA that codes for the protein to the recipient cell. cDNA is also produced by retroviruses which is integrated into its host to create a provirus.
General Conference on Weights and Measures: The General Conference on Weights and Measures is the English name of the Confence gale des poids et mesures (CGPM, never GCWM). It is one of the three organizations established to maintain the International System of Units under the terms of the Convention du Mre of 1875. It meets in Sres (in the southwestern suburbs of Paris) every four to six years. The CGPM represents 52 member states and 26 further associate members.
Cellular digital packet data: Cellular Digital Packet Data (CDPD) was a wide-area mobile data service which used unused bandwidth normally used by AMPS mobile phones between 800 and 900 MHz to transfer data. Speeds up to 19.2 kbit/s were possible. The service was discontinued in conjunction with the retirement of the parent AMPS service; it has been functionally replaced by faster services such as 1xRTT, EV-DO, and UMTS/HSPA. Developed in the early 1990s, CDPD was large on the horizon as a future technology.
Cowboy Bebop: Cowboy Bebop is an award-winning 1998 Japanese anime series directed by Shinichir Watanabe, written by Keiko Nobumoto, and produced by Sunrise. Its 26 episodes comprise a complete storyline: set in 2071, the series follows the misadventures and tragedies of a group of bounty hunters, or "cowboys", traveling on their spaceship, the Bebop.
Clement of Alexandria: Titus Flavius Clemens (c.150 - c. 215), known as Clement of Alexandria (to distinguish him from Clement of Rome), was a Christian theologian and the head of the noted Catechetical School of Alexandria. Clement is best remembered as the teacher of Origen. He united Greek philosophical traditions with Christian doctrine and valued gnosis that with communion for all people could be held by common Christians specially chosen by God.
Carl Barks: Carl Barks (March 27, 1901 - August 25, 2000) was an American Disney Studio illustrator and comic book creator, who invented Duckburg and many of its inhabitants, such as Scrooge McDuck (1947), Gladstone Gander (1948), the Beagle Boys (1951), Gyro Gearloose (1952), Flintheart Glomgold (1956), John D. Rockerduck (1961) and Magica De Spell (1961). The quality of his scripts and drawings earned him the nicknames The Duck Man and The Good Duck Artist.
Creature of statute: A creature of statute is a legal entity such as a corporation created by statute. Thus, when a statute in some fashion requires the formation of a corporate bodyoften for governmental purposessuch bodies when formed are known as "creatures of statute. " The same concept is also expressed with the phrase "creature of the state.
Cogito ergo sum: Cogito ergo sum, sometimes misquoted as Dubito ergo cogito ergo sum, is a philosophical statement in Latin used by Ren Descartes, which became a foundational element of Western philosophy. The simple meaning of the phrase is that if someone is wondering whether or not he exists, that is in and of itself proof that he does exist (because, at the very least, there is an "I" who is doing the thinking).
Christology: Christology (from Christ and Greek, ') is a field of study within Christian theology which is concerned with the nature of Jesus Christ. Christology is generally less concerned with the details of Jesus' life than with how the human and divine co-exist in one person.
Complaint: In general use, a complaint is an expression of displeasure, such as low quality service at a store, or from a local government, etc. In legal terminology, a complaint is a formal legal document that sets out the facts and legal reasons that the filing party believes are sufficient to support a claim against another person, persons, entity or entities that entitles the plaintiff(s) to a remedy.
Casimir III the Great: Casimir III the Great, last King of Poland from the Piast dynasty (1333-1370), was the son of King Wadysaw I the Elbow-high and Hedwig of Kalisz.
Centimetre gram second system of units: The centimetre-gram-second system (abbreviated CGS or cgs) is a metric system of physical units based on centimetre as the unit of length, gram as a unit of mass, and second as a unit of time. All CGS mechanical units are unambiguously derived from these three base units, but there are several different ways of extending the CGS system to cover electromagnetism. The CGS system has been largely supplanted by the MKS system, based on metre, kilogram, and second.
Chastity: Chastity is sexual behavior of a man or woman acceptable to the ethical norms and guidelines of a culture, civilization, or religion. In the western world, the term has become closely associated (and is often used interchangeably) with sexual abstinence, especially before marriage. However, the term remains applicable to persons in all states, single or married, clerical or lay, and has implications beyond sexual temperance.
Comparative law: Comparative law is the study of differences and similarities between the law of different countries. More specifically, it involves study of the different legal systems in existence in the world, including the common law, the civil law, socialist law, Islamic law, Hindu law, and Chinese law. It includes the description and analysis of foreign legal systems, even where no explicit comparison is undertaken.
Cosmic microwave background radiation: In cosmology, cosmic microwave background (CMB) radiation (also CMBR, CBR, MBR, and relic radiation) is a form of electromagnetic radiation filling the universe. With a traditional optical telescope, the space between stars and galaxies (the background) is pitch black. But with a radio telescope, there is a faint background glow, almost exactly the same in all directions, that is not associated with any star, galaxy, or other object.
CD disambiguation: CD, C/D, Cd or cd may stand for: Compact disc, a thin plastic silvery disc for audio recordings CD-ROM, the same technology used for computer data Certificate of deposit, bank account in the United States with a fixed maturity date Conditional discharge, legal decision taken by a court to release without punishment CD represents 400 in Roman numerals
Complexity: In general usage, complexity tends to be used to characterize something with many parts in intricate arrangement. The study of these complex linkages is the main goal of network theory and network science. In science there are at this time a number of approaches to characterizing complexity, many of which are reflected in this article.
Cyberspace: Cyberspace (from Greek meaning "steersman", "governor", "pilot", or "rudder") is the global domain of electromagnetics as accessed and exploited through electronic technology and the modulation of electromagnetic energy to achieve a wide range of communication and control system capabilities.
Cyril of Alexandria: Saint Cyril of Alexandria (c. 376 - 444) was the Pope of Alexandria from 412 to 444. He came to power when the city was at its height of influence and power within the Roman Empire. Cyril wrote extensively and was a leading protagonist in the Christological controversies of the later 4th and 5th centuries. He was a central figure in the First Council of Ephesus in 431, which led to the deposition of Nestorius as Patriarch of Constantinople.
Maritimes: The Maritime provinces, also called the Maritimes or the Canadian Maritimes, is a region of Eastern Canada consisting of three provinces: New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Prince Edward Island. On the Atlantic coast, the Maritimes are a subregion of Atlantic Canada. The population of the Maritime provinces was 1,826,896 in 2008. The Maritimes front the Atlantic Ocean and its various sub-basins such as the Gulf of Maine and Gulf of St. Lawrence systems.
Cyril of Jerusalem: Cyril of Jerusalem (Greek ) was a distinguished theologian of the early Church (ca. 313 - 386). He is venerated as a saint by the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, and the Anglican Communion. In 1883, Cyril was declared a Doctor of the Church by Pope Leo XIII.
Hanukkah: Hanukkah (in Modern Hebrew, also romanized as Chanukah), also known as the Festival of Lights, is an eight-day Jewish holiday commemorating the rededication of the Holy Temple in Jerusalem at the time of the Maccabean Revolt of the 2nd century BCE. Hanukkah is observed for eight nights, starting on the 25th day of Kislev according to the Hebrew calendar, which may occur at any time from late November to late December in the Gregorian calendar.
Christian views on marriage: Christian views on marriage typically regard it as instituted and ordained by God for the lifelong relationship between one man as husband and one woman as wife, and is to be "held in honor among all.... " Civil laws recognize marriage as having social and political status. Christian theology affirms the secular status of marriage, but additionally views it from a moral and religious perspective that transcends all social interests.
Computer security: Computer security is a branch of computer technology known as information security as applied to computers and networks. The objective of computer security includes protection of information and property from theft, corruption, or natural disaster, while allowing the information and property to remain accessible and productive to its intended users.
Color blindness: Color blindness or color vision deficiency is the inability to perceive differences between some of the colors that others can distinguish. It is most often of genetic nature, but may also occur because of eye, nerve, or brain damage, or exposure to certain chemicals. The English chemist John Dalton published the first scientific paper on the subject in 1798, "Extraordinary facts relating to the vision of colours", after the realization of his own color blindness.
Class computer science: In object-oriented programming, a class is a construct that is used as a blueprint to create objects of that class. This blueprint describes the state and behavior that the objects of the class all share. An object of a given class is called an instance of the class. The class that contains (and was used to create) that instance can be considered as the type of that object, e.g. an object instance of the "Fruit" class would be of the type "Fruit".
Chris Cunningham: Chris Cunningham is an English music video film director and video artist. He was born in Reading, Berkshire in 1970 and grew up in Lakenheath, Suffolk. The video collection ' was released in November 2004 as part of the Directors Label set. This DVD includes selected highlights from 1995-2000.
Chemotaxis: Chemotaxis is the phenomenon in which bodily cells, bacteria, and other single-cell or multicellular organisms direct their movements according to certain chemicals in their environment. This is important for bacteria to find food by swimming towards the highest concentration of food molecules, or to flee from poisons. In multicellular organisms, chemotaxis is critical to early (e.g.
County town: A county town is the 'capital' of a county in the Republic of Ireland or the United Kingdom. County towns are usually the location of administrative or judicial functions, or established over time as the de facto main town of a county. The concept of a county town eventually became detached from its original meaning of where the county administration is based. In fact, many county towns are no longer part of "their" administrative county e.g.
Constitution of Canada: The Constitution of Canada (La Constitution du Canada in French) is the supreme law in Canada; the country's constitution is an amalgamation of codified acts and uncodified traditions and conventions. It outlines Canada's system of government, as well as the civil rights of all Canadian citizens. Interpretation of the Constitution is called Canadian constitutional law.
Cheshire: Cheshire; also known, archaically, as the County of Chester is a ceremonial county and former principality in North West England. The traditional county town is the city of Chester, although Cheshire's largest town is Warrington. Other major towns include Congleton, Crewe, Ellesmere Port, Widnes, Runcorn, Macclesfield, Winsford, Northwich, and Wilmslow.
Centaur: In Greek mythology, the centaurs are a race of creatures composed of part human and part horse. In early Attic and Boeotian vase-paintings, as on the kantharos illustrated below left, they are depicted with the hindquarters of a horse attached to them; in later renderings centaurs are given the torso of a human joined at the waist to the horse's withers, where the horse's neck would be.
Coil: A coil is a series of s. A coiled coil is a structure where the coil itself is in turn also looping.
Crochet: Crochet is a process of creating fabric from yarn or thread using a crochet hook. The word is derived from the French word "crochet", meaning hook. Crocheting, similar to knitting, consists of pulling loops of yarn through other loops. Crochet differs from knitting in that only one loop is active at one time (the sole exception being Tunisian crochet), and that a crochet hook is used instead of knitting needles.
Counter-Strike: Counter-Strike (commonly abbreviated to CS) is a tactical first-person shooter video game which originated from a Half-Life modification by Minh "Gooseman" Le and Jess "Cliffe" Cliffe. The game has been expanded into a series since its original release, which currently includes ', ', Counter-Strike: Anthology and Counter-Strike on Xbox. Counter-Strike pits a team of counter-terrorists against a team of terrorists in a series of rounds.
Cardiology diagnostic tests and procedures: The diagnostic tests in cardiology are methods of identifying heart conditions associated with healthy vs. unhealthy, pathologic, heart function.
Camille Pissarro: Camille Pissarro (10 July 1830 - 13 November 1903) was a French Impressionist painter. His importance resides not only in his visual contributions to Impressionism and Post-Impressionism, but also in his patriarchal standing among his colleagues, particularly Paul Canne and Paul Gauguin.
Charles I of England: Saint Charles I, King and Martyr (19 November 1600 - 30 January 1649) was the second son of James VI of Scots and I of England. He was King of England, Scotland and Ireland from 27 March 1625 until his execution. Charles engaged in a struggle for power with the Parliament of England, attempting to obtain royal revenue whilst Parliament sought to curb his Royal prerogative which Charles believed was divinely ordained.
Carlo Collodi: Carlo Lorenzini (November 24, 1826 - October 26, 1890), better known by the pen name Carlo Collodi, was a Florentine children's writer known for the world-renowned fairy tale novel, The Adventures of Pinocchio.
Carson City Nevada: The Consolidated Municipality of Carson City is the capital of the State of Nevada. The population was 52,457 at the 2000 census.
Clark Kent: Clark Joseph Kent (middle name is also Jerome according to some versions) is a fictional character created by Joe Shuster and Jerry Siegel. He serves as the civilian and secret identity of the superhero Superman. Over the decades there has been considerable debate as to which personality the character identifies with most. From his first introduction in 1938 to the mid-1980s, "Clark Kent" was seen mostly as a disguise for Superman, enabling him to mix with ordinary people.
Constructible number: A point in the Euclidean plane is a constructible point if, given a fixed coordinate system, the point can be constructed with unruled straightedge and compass. A complex number is a constructible number if its corresponding point in the Euclidean plane is constructible from the usual x- and y-coordinate axes.
Classification of finite simple groups: In mathematics, the classification of the finite simple groups, also called the enormous theorem, is believed to classify all finite simple groups. These groups can be seen as the basic building blocks of all finite groups, in much the same way as the prime numbers are the basic building blocks of the natural numbers. The Jordan-Hder theorem is a more precise way of stating this fact about finite groups.
Circumcision and law: There have been laws about circumcision dating back to ancient times. In a number of modern states, circumcision of males is presumed to be legal, but under certain circumstances, more general laws, such as laws about assault or child custody, may sometimes be interpreted as applying to situations involving male circumcision. Some countries have placed restrictions on circumcision.
Called to Common Mission: Called to Common Mission is an agreement between The Episcopal Church and the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA), establishing full communion between them. It was ratified by the ELCA in 1999, the ECUSA in 2000, after the narrow failure of a previous agreement. Its principal author on the Episcopal side was the Rev. Canon J. Robert Wright. Under the agreement, they recognize the validity of each other's baptisms and ordinations.
Christian persecution: Christian persecution could refer to: Historical persecution by Christians- persecution of other groups by Christians Persecution of Christians - persecution of Christians by other groups More generally, see: Religious persecution
Jews as a chosen people: In Judaism, chosenness is the belief that the Jews are the chosen people: chosen to be in a covenant with God. This idea is first found in the Torah (five books of Moses) and is elaborated on in later books of the Hebrew Bible. Much is written about these topics in rabbinic literature.
Context menu: A context menu (also called contextual, shortcut, and popup or pop-up menu) is a menu in a graphical user interface (GUI) that appears upon user interaction, such as a right mouse click or middle click mouse operation. A context menu offers a limited set of choices that are available in the current state, or context, of the operating system or application. Usually the available choices are actions related to the selected object.
Chaparral: Chaparral is a shrubland or heathland plant community found primarily in the U.S. state of California and in the northern portion of the Baja California peninsula, Mexico. It is shaped by a Mediterranean climate (mild, wet winters and hot dry summers) and wildfire.
Chalcolithic: The Chalcolithic period or Copper Age period, also known as the Eneolithic/eolithic, is a phase in the development of human culture in which the use of early metal tools appeared alongside the use of stone tools. The period is a transitional one outside of the traditional three-age system, and occurs between the Neolithic and Bronze Age.
Clinker: Clinker may refer to: Clinker (boat building), construction method for wooden boats Clinker (waste), waste from industrial processes Clinker (cement), a kilned then quenched cement product Clinker brick, rough dark coloured bricks Clinker Peak, a volcanic peak in British Columbia, Canada Clinker may also be used for: Small rocks that form in some A lava flows Waste from coal fires
CJD: CJD can mean: Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a rare disease of the brain caused by prions, related to bovine spongiform encephalopathy Chronological Julian Day, an alternate way of expressing the Julian Date Christliches Jugenddorfwerk Deutschlands, a German Christian educational institution Abbreviation for Chojoongdong, the three major newspapers in South Korea. Dealerships that sell Chrysler, Jeep, and Dodge vehicles
Clive Anderson: Clive Anderson (born 10 December 1952) is a former barrister, best known for being a comedy writer as well as a radio and television presenter in the United Kingdom. Winner of a British Comedy Award in 1991, Anderson began his success during his 15-year law career with stand-up comedy and comedic script writing, before starring in Whose Line Is It Anyway? on BBC Radio 4, then later, Channel 4.
Clipper: A clipper was a very fast sailing ship of the 19th century that had multiple masts and a square rig. They were generally narrow for their length, could carry limited bulk freight, small by later 19th century standards, and had a large total sail area. Clipper ships were mostly made in British and American shipyards, though France, the Netherlands and other nations also produced some.
Coal tar: Coal tar is a brown or black liquid of high viscosity, which smells of naphthalene and aromatic hydrocarbons. Coal tar is among the by-products when coal is carbonized to make coke or gasified to make coal gas. Coal tars are complex and variable mixtures of phenols, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), and heterocyclic compounds.
Cold fusion: Cold fusion refers to nuclear fusion of atoms at conditions close to room temperature, in contrast to the conditions of well-understood fusion reactions such as those inside stars and high energy experiments.
Charles Lyell: Sir Charles Lyell, 1st Baronet, Kt FRS (14 November 1797 - 22 February 1875) was a British lawyer and the foremost geologist of his day. He is best known as the author of Principles of Geology, which popularised uniformitarianism - the idea that the earth was shaped by slow-moving forces still in operation today. Lyell was a close and influential friend of Charles Darwin.
Catherine of Siena: Saint Catherine of Siena, T.O.S. D, (25 March 1347 - 29 April 1380) was a tertiary of the Dominican Order, and a Scholastic philosopher and theologian. She also worked to bring the Papacy back to Rome from its displacement in France, and to establish peace among the Italian city-states. She was proclaimed a Doctor of the Church in 1970. She is one of the two patron saints of Italy, together with Francis of Assisi.
Cobbler: Cobbler(s) may refer to: A shoemaker who repairs shoes, rather than manufacturing them (see cordwainer for a discussion of the distinction).
Cuauht moc: Cuauhtoc (also known as Cuauhtemotzin, Guatimozin or Guatemoc; c. 1502- 28 February 1525) was the Aztec ruler of Tenochtitlan from 1520 to 1521. The name Cuuhtemc means "One That Has Descended Like an Eagle", commonly rendered in English as "Falling Eagle," as in the moment when an eagle folds its wings and plummets down in order to strike its prey, so this is a name that implies aggressiveness or bravery, not the defeat or death of the eagle as might be supposed.
CANDU reactor: The CANDU ("CANada Deuterium Uranium") reactor is a Canadian-invented, pressurized heavy water reactor developed initially in the late 1950s and 1960s by a partnership between Atomic Energy of Canada Limited (AECL), the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario (renamed Ontario Hydro in 1974, and now known as Ontario Power Generation since 1999), Canadian General Electric (now known as GE Canada), as well as several private industry participants.
Chelsea F.C.: Chelsea Football Club are an English professional football club based in West London. Founded in 1905, they play in the Premier League and have spent most of their history in the top tier of English football. Chelsea have been English champions three times, and have won the FA Cup five times, the League Cup four times and the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup twice. The club had their first major success in 1955, winning the league championship.
Cell membrane: The cell membrane (also called the plasma membrane or plasmalemma) is one biological membrane separating the interior of a cell from the outside environment. The cell membrane surrounds all cells and it is semi-permeable, controlling the movement of substances in and out of cells. It contains a wide variety of biological molecules, primarily proteins and lipids, which are involved in a variety of cellular processes such as cell adhesion, ion channel conductance and cell signaling.
Cross section physics: In nuclear and particle physics, the concept of a cross section is used to express the likelihood of interaction between particles. When particles are thrown against a foil made of a certain substance, the cross section is a hypothetical area measure around the target particles (usually its atoms) that represents a surface. If a particle of the beam crosses this surface, there will be some kind of interaction.
Cuitl huac: Cuitlahuac (c. 1476 - 1520) or Cuitluac was the 10th tlatoani (ruler) of the Aztec city of Tenochtitlan for 80 days during the year Two Flint (1520). Cuitlahuac was the eleventh son of the ruler Axayacatl and a younger brother of Moctezuma II, the previous ruler of Tenochtitlan. His mother's father, also called Cuitlahuac, had been ruler of Itztapalapan, and the younger Cuitlahuac also ruled there initially.
Christian mythology: Christian mythology is the body of traditional narratives associated with Christianity from a mythographical perspective. Many Christians believe that these narratives are sacred and that they communicate profound truths. These traditional narratives include, but are not necessarily limited to, the stories contained in the Christian Bible.
Corporation: A corporation is an institution that is granted a charter recognizing it as a separate legal entity having its own privileges, and liabilities distinct from those of its members. There are many different forms of corporations, most of which are used to conduct business. In modern times, these business corporations have become an increasingly dominant part of economic life.
Fairchild Channel F: The Fairchild Channel F is a game console released by Fairchild Semiconductor in August 1976 at the retail price of $169.95. It has the distinction of being the first programmable ROM cartridge-based video game console. It was launched as the Video Entertainment System, or VES, but when Atari released their VCS the next year, Fairchild renamed its machine.
Company disambiguation: A company may be any Companion, an individual habitually or purposefully accompanying another individual Interpersonal relationship Comrade Friend Familiar Escort Concubine any group with a common purpose a band society, for example of hunters Company (military unit), a group of typically 75-200 soldiers A business company as a form of business organization.
Civil Rights Act: Civil Rights Act may refer to:
Capability Maturity Model: The Capability Maturity Model (CMM) is a service mark owned by Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) and refers to a development model elicited from actual data. The data were collected from organizations that contracted with the U.S. Department of Defense, who funded the research, and they became the foundation from which CMU created the Software Engineering Institute (SEI). Like any model it is an abstraction of an existing system.
Collation: Collation is the assembly of written information into a standard order. One common type of collation is called alphabetisation, though collation is not limited to ordering letters of the alphabet. Collating lists of words or names into alphabetical order is the basis of most office filing systems, library catalogs and reference books.
Centillion: The number centillion refers to different quantities based on locality of usage. The number itself has no real usage outside of mathematics.
Cola: Cola is a beverage usually containing caramel color, caffeine and a sweetener such as sugar or high fructose corn syrup. Originally invented by the druggist John Pemberton in 1886, it has become popular worldwide. Coca-Cola has become the major international brand, leading to the drink often being seen as a symbol of the United States. Modern colas very rarely contain any kola nut- the origin of the name- as the taste of this nut is strongly bitter.
Celebes: Celebes may refer to: Sulawesi, an island in Indonesia, formerly known as Celebes Celebes Sea The Elephant Celebes, a 1921 Surrealist work by Max Ernst
RDX: RDX, also known less commonly as cyclonite, hexogen (particularly in German and German-influenced languages), and T4, and chemically as Cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine, is an explosive nitroamine widely used in military and industrial applications. Nomenclature variants include cyclotrimethylene-trinitramine and cyclotrimethylene trinitramine. In its pure, synthesized state RDX is a white, crystalline solid.
Christianity and Judaism: The article on Judeo-Christian tradition emphasizes continuities and convergences between the two religions, this article emphasizes the widely diverging views held by Christianity and Judaism. This article only considers the mainstream Jewish views, in contrast to Karaite Judaism.
Cesare Borgia: Cesare Borgia (September 13, 1475 - March 12, 1507), Duke of Valentinois was a Spanish-Italian condottiero, lord and cardinal. He was the son of Pope Alexander VI and his long-term mistress Vannozza dei Cattanei. He was the brother to Lucrezia Borgia, Gioffre Borgia (Jofr in Valentian), Prince of Squillace, and Giovanni Borgia, duke of Gandia, and half-brother to Don Pedro Luis de Borja (1460 - 1481) and Girolama de Borja, children of unknown mothers.
Christine Lavin: Christine Lavin (born January 2, 1952) is a New York City-based singer-songwriter and promoter of contemporary folk music. She has recorded numerous solo albums, and has also recorded with other female folk artists under the name Four Bitchin' Babes. She has also put together several compilation albums of contemporary folk artists, including On a Winter's Night. She is known for her sense of humor, which is expressed in both her music and her onstage performances.
Chronicle: Generally a chronicle is a historical account of facts and events ranged in chronological order. Typically, equal weight is given for historically important events and local events, the purpose being the recording of events that occurred, seen from the perspective of the chronicler. This is in contrast to a narrative or history, which sets selected events in a meaningful interpretive context and excludes those the author does not see as important.
Cutter Expansive Classification: The Cutter Expansive Classification system is a library classification system devised by Charles Ammi Cutter. It uses all letters to designate the top categories of books. This is in contrast to the Dewey Decimal Classification, which uses only numbers, and the Library of Congress classification, which uses a mixture of letters and numbers. The system was the basis for the top categories of the Library of Congress classification.
Calista Flockhart: Calista Kay Flockhart (born November 11, 1964) is an American actress, primarily on television. She is best known for playing the title character of Ally McBeal (1997-2002). She currently stars as Sally Fields characters daughter, Kitty Walker, on the ABC drama, Brothers & Sisters.
Concentration: In chemistry, concentration is the measure of how much of a given substance there is mixed with another substance. This can apply to any sort of chemical mixture, but most frequently the concept is limited to homogeneous solutions, where it refers to the amount of solute in the solvent. To concentrate a solution, one must add more solute (e.g. alcohol), or reduce the amount of solvent (e.g. water). By contrast, to dilute a solution, one must add more solvent, or reduce the amount of solute.
Cem Karaca: Muhtar Cem Karaca (April 5, 1945 - February 8, 2004), also called as Cem Baba (Cem the Father) Legend by his fans, was a prominent Turkish rock musician and one of the most important figures in the Anatolian rock movement.
Calico textile: Calico has different meanings according to which country the word is used in. Originally calico was a plain-woven textile which originated in the city of Kozhikode, Kerala, India, which was known by Europeans as Calicut, in the 11th century. The fabric was made by the traditional weavers called chaliyans.
Convolution: In mathematics and, in particular, functional analysis, convolution is a mathematical operation on two functions f and g, producing a third function that is typically viewed as a modified version of one of the original functions. Convolution is similar to cross-correlation. It has applications that include statistics, computer vision, image and signal processing, electrical engineering, and differential equations.
Calorimetry: Calorimetry is the science of measuring the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes. Calorimetry involves the use of a calorimeter. The word calorimetry is derived from the Latin word calor, meaning heat. Scottish physician and scientist Joseph Black, who was the first to recognize the distinction between heat and temperature, is said to be the founder of calorimetry.
Concept album: In popular music, a concept album is an album that is "unified by a theme, which can be instrumental, compositional, narrative, or lyrical". Commonly, concept albums tend to incorporate preconceived musical or lyrical ideas rather than being improvised or composed in the studio, with all songs contributing to a single overall theme or unified story.
Charles Evans Hughes: Charles Evans Hughes Sr. (April 11, 1862 - August 27, 1948) was a lawyer and Republican politician from the State of New York. He served as the 36th Governor of New York (1907-1910), United States Secretary of State (1921-1925), Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States (1910-1916) and Chief Justice of the United States (1930-1941). He was the Republican candidate in the 1916 U.S. Presidential election, losing to Woodrow Wilson.
Critical theory: Critical theory is the examination and critique of society and culture, drawing from knowledge across the social sciences and humanities. The term has two different meanings with different origins and histories: one originating in sociology and the other in literary criticism. This has led to the very literal use of 'critical theory' as an umbrella term to describe theoretical critique.
Cro-hook: The cro-hook, is a special double-ended crochet hook used to make double-sided crochet, which is a variation of Tunisian crochet. Because the hook has two ends, two colors of thread can be used simultaneously and freely interchanged. Crafts using a double-ended hook are commercially marketed as Cro-hook and Crochenit.
Clavichord: The clavichord is a European stringed keyboard instrument known from the late Medieval, through the Renaissance, Baroque and Classical eras. Historically, it was widely used as a practice instrument and as an aid to composition, not being loud enough for larger performances. The clavichord produces sound by striking brass or iron strings with small metal blades called tangents. Vibrations are transmitted through the bridge(s) to the soundboard.
Centrifugal force rotating reference frame: In classical mechanics, centrifugal force is an outward force associated with curved motion, that is, rotation about some (possibly not stationary) center. Centrifugal force is one of several so-called pseudo-forces (also known as inertial forces), so named because, unlike fundamental forces, they do not originate in interactions with other bodies situated in the environment of the particle upon which they act.
Commodore: Commodore may refer to:
Centripetal force: Centripetal force is a force that makes a body follow a curved path: it is always directed orthogonal to the velocity of the body, toward the instantaneous center of curvature of the path. The term centripetal force comes from the Latin words centrum ("center") and petere ("tend towards", "aim at"), signifying that the force is directed inward toward the center of curvature of the path.
Checksum: A checksum or hash sum is a fixed-size datum computed from an arbitrary block of digital data for the purpose of detecting accidental errors that may have been introduced during its transmission or storage. The integrity of the data can be checked at any later time by recomputing the checksum and comparing it with the stored one. If the checksums do not match, the data was almost certainly altered (either intentionally or unintentionally).
City University of New York: Not to be confused with New York University, formerly known as the University of the City of New York. For similar uses, see University of New York The City University of New York, is the public university system of New York City. It is the largest urban university in the United States, consisting of 23 institutions: 11 senior colleges, six community colleges, the William E.
Computational complexity theory: Computational complexity theory is a branch of the theory of computation in computer science that focuses on classifying computational problems according to their inherent difficulty. In this context, a computational problem is understood to be a task that is in principle amenable to being solved by a computer. Informally, a computational problem consists of problem instances and solutions to these problem instances.
Camelot: Camelot is the most famous castle and court associated with the legendary King Arthur. Absent in the early Arthurian material, Camelot first appeared in 12th-century French romances and eventually came to be described as the fantastic capital of Arthur's realm and a symbol of the fabulous Arthurian world. The stories locate it somewhere in Britain and sometimes associate it with real cities, though more usually its precise location is not revealed.
Craig Venter: John Craig Venter (born October 14, 1946) is an American biologist and entrepreneur. Venter founded Celera Genomics, The Institute for Genomic Research and the J. Craig Venter Institute, now working at the latter to create synthetic biological organisms for environmental change and to document genetic diversity in the world's oceans. He was listed on Time Magazine's 2007 and 2008 Time 100 list of the most influential people in the world.
Contras: The Contras is a label given to the various rebel groups opposing Nicaragua's FSLN Sandinista Junta of National Reconstruction government following the July 1979 overthrow of Anastasio Somoza Debayle's dictatorship. Although the Contra movement included a number of separate groups, with different aims and little ideological unity, the Nicaraguan Democratic Force (FDN) emerged as by far the largest.
Chemical evolution: Chemical evolution may refer to: Nucleosynthesis, the creation of chemical elements in the universe either through the Big Bang, or supernovae Abiogenesis, the transition from nonliving elements to living systems Molecular evolution, evolution at the scale of molecules
Carl Rogers: Carl Rogers (January 8, 1902 - February 4, 1987) was an influential American psychologist and among the founders of the humanistic approach to psychology. Rogers is widely considered to be one of the founding fathers of psychotherapy research and was honored for his pioneering research with the Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions by the American Psychological Association in 1956.
Classical Kuiper belt object: In astronomy a classical Kuiper Belt object, also called a cubewano, is a Kuiper belt object (KBO) that orbits beyond Neptune and is not controlled by an orbital resonance with the giant planet. Cubewanos have semi-major axes in the 40-50 AU range and, unlike Pluto, do not cross Neptunes orbit. The name "cubewano" derives from the first trans-Neptunian object (TNO) found after Pluto and Charon, (15760) 1992 QB1. Later similar objects were called "QB1-o's", or "cubewanos".
Casimir effect: In quantum field theory, the Casimir effect and the Casimir-Polder force are physical forces arising from a quantized field. The typical example is of two uncharged metallic plates in a vacuum, placed a few micrometers apart, without any external electromagnetic field. In a classical description, the lack of an external field also means that there is no field between the plates, and no force would be measured between them.
Coin: A coin is a piece of hard material that is standardized in weight, it is produced in large quantities in order to facilitate trade, and primarily and above all has the mark of the authority that produces it. Coins are usually metal or a metallic material and sometimes made of synthetic materials, usually in the shape of a disc, and most often issued by a government.
Cem Akas: Cem Akas (born 1968) is a Turkish novelist, who was born in Mannheim, Germany. He was educated in Turkey and the United States in Chemical Engineering (BSc), Political Science (MA) and Turkish History (PhD). He has worked for Yapi Kredi Publications, Istanbul, between 1992 and 2004. In 2004 he left YKY and formed his own publishing group: g yayin grubu.
Carousel musical: Carousel is a musical by Richard Rodgers (music) and Oscar Hammerstein II (book and lyrics) that was adapted from Ferenc Moln's 1909 play Liliom, transplanting the Budapest setting of Moln's play to a New England fishing village. The show includes the hit musical numbers If I Loved You, June Is Bustin' Out All Over, and You'll Never Walk Alone. Carousel was innovative for its time, being one of the first musicals to contain a tragic plot.
Christian alternative rock: Christian alternative music (ACM) is a form of alternative rock music that is lyrically grounded in a Christian worldview. ACM is not limited to styles such as alternative rock, but also includes rap and hip hop artists. Unlike CCM and Christian rock, ACM generally emphasizes musical style over lyrical content. The degree to which the faith appears in the music varies from artist to artist.
Foreign policy of the United States: The foreign policy of the United States is the policy by which the United States interacts with foreign nations. The U.S. is highly influential in the world. The global reach of the United States is backed by a $14.3 trillion dollar economy, approximately a quarter of global GDP, and a defense budget of $711 billion which accounts for approximately half of global military spending. The U.S.
Clive Barker: Clive Barker (born 5 October 1952) is an English author, film director and visual artist best known for his work in both fantasy and horror fiction. Barker came to prominence in the mid-1980s with a series of short stories which established him as a leading young horror writer. He has since written many novels and other works, and his fiction has been adapted into motion pictures, notably the Hellraiser series.
Comic fantasy: Comic fantasy is a subgenre of fantasy that is primarily humorous in intent and tone. Usually set in imaginary worlds, comic fantasy often includes puns on and parodies of other works of fantasy. It is sometimes known as Low fantasy in contrast to High fantasy, which is primarily serious in intent and tone.
Christmas in Poland: Christmas in Poland is a major annual celebration, as it is in most of the western world.
CLU programming language: CLU is a programming language created at MIT by Barbara Liskov and her students between 1974 and 1975. It was notable for its use of constructors for abstract data types that included the code that operated on them, a key step in the direction of object-oriented programming (OOP). However many of the other features of OOP are (intentionally) missing, notably inheritance, and the language is also hindered by a sometimes frustrating if elegant syntax.
Corsican language: Corsican is a Romance language spoken and written on the islands of Corsica and northern Sardinia. Corsican is the traditional native language of the Corsican people, and was long the sole language of the island, which was acquired by France in 1768. In 1990, more than two centuries later, nearly all Corsicans were fluent in French, usually as a first language.
Commodore rank: Commodore is a military rank used in many navies for officers whose position exceeds that of a navy captain, but is less than that of a rear admiral. Non English-speaking nations often use the rank Counter Admiral instead. It is often regarded as a 1 star rank with a NATO code of OF-6, but is not always regarded as a flag rank. It is sometimes abbreviated as Cdre, CDRE or COMO.
Commodore International: Commodore, the commonly used name for Commodore International, was a US electronics company based in West Chester, Pennsylvania which played a vital role in the development of the home-personal computer industry in the 1980s. The company is also known under the name of its R&D operation, Commodore Business Machines (CBM). Commodore developed and marketed the world's best-selling desktop computer, the Commodore 64 (1982).
Collapse of the Soviet Union 1985 1991: The Soviet Union's collapse into independent nations began early in 1985. After years of Soviet military buildup at the expense of domestic development, economic growth was at a standstill. Failed attempts at reform, a stagnant economy, and war in Afghanistan led to a general feeling of discontent, especially in the Baltic republics and Eastern Europe.
Chaim Topol: Chaim Topol, often billed simply as Topol, is an Israeli theatrical and film performer.
Cable television: Cable television is a system of providing television to consumers via radio frequency signals transmitted to televisions through fixed optical fibers or coaxial cables as opposed to the over-the-air method used in traditional television broadcasting (via radio waves) in which a television antenna is required. FM radio programming, high-speed Internet, telephony, and similar non-television services may also be provided. The abbreviation CATV is often used to mean "Cable TV".
Christadelphians: Christadelphians are a Christian group that developed in the United Kingdom and North America in the 19th century. The name was coined by John Thomas, who was the group's founder. Although no official membership figures are published the Columbia Encyclopedia gives an estimated figure of 50,000 Christadelphians in 120 countries established in many countries throughout the world, along with isolated members. Census statistics are available for some countries.
Cholera: Cholera, sometimes known as Asiatic or epidemic cholera, is an infectious gastroenteritis caused by enterotoxin-producing strains of the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. Transmission to humans occurs through eating food or drinking water contaminated with Vibrio cholerae from other cholera patients. The major reservoir for cholera was long assumed to be humans themselves, but considerable evidence exists that aquatic environments can serve as reservoirs of the bacteria.
Cauchy Riemann equations: In mathematics, the Cauchy-Riemann differential equations in complex analysis, named after Augustin Cauchy and Bernhard Riemann, consist of a system of two partial differential equations that provides a necessary and sufficient condition for a differentiable function to be holomorphic in an open set. This system of equations first appeared in the work of Jean le Rond d'Alembert. Later, Leonhard Euler connected this system to the analytic functions.
Calculator: Modern electronic calculators are small (often pocket-sized), digital, and usually inexpensive devices to perform the basic operations of arithmetic. In addition to general purpose calculators, there are those designed for specific markets; for example, there are scientific calculators which focus on operations slightly more complex than those specific to arithmetic - for instance, trigonometric and statistical calculations. Some calculators even have the ability to do computer algebra.
Caldera: A caldera is a cauldron-like volcanic feature usually formed by the collapse of land following a volcanic eruption such as the ones at Yellowstone National Park in the US and Glen Coe in Scotland. They are sometimes confused with volcanic craters. The word comes from Spanish caldera, and this from Latin, meaning "cooking pot". In some texts the English term cauldron is also used. Calderas are formed out of stratovolcanoes.
Cash register: A cash register or till is a mechanical or electronic device for calculating and recording sales transactions, and an attached cash drawer for storing cash. The cash register also usually prints a receipt for the customer. In most cases the drawer can be opened only after a sale, except when using a special keys, which only senior employees and the owner have.
Chronometer disambiguation: Chronometer may refer to: Chronometer watch, a watch tested and certified to meet certain precision standards Hydrochronometer, a water clock Marine chronometer, a timekeeper used for celestial navigation Railroad chronometer, a specialized timepiece once used for safe operation of trains in the United States and Canada See also Chronometry Clock
Carinatae: The Carinatae are, in phylogenetic taxonomy, the last common ancestor of the Neornithes and Ichthyornis (an extinct seabird of the Cretaceous), and all its descendants. Defined in this way, the group includes all modern birds, both living and recently extinct, and a few Mesozoic forms.
CPU design: CPU design is the design engineering task of creating a central processing unit (CPU), a component of computer hardware. It is a subfield of electronics engineering and computer engineering.
Cocktail: A cocktail is a mixed drink containing two or more ingredients. Originally a mixture of distilled spirits, sugar, water, and bitters, the word has gradually come to mean almost any mixed drink containing alcohol.
Family International: The Children of God (COG), later known as the Family of Love, the Family, and now The Family International (TFI), is a new religious movement, referred to as a cult, started in 1968 in Huntington Beach, California, United States. It was an offshoot of the Jesus movement of the late 1960s, with many of its early converts drawn from the hippie movement.
Code of Hammurabi: The Code of Hammurabi (Codex Hammurabi) is a well-preserved ancient law code, created ca. 1790 BC in ancient Babylon. It was enacted by the sixth Babylonian king, Hammurabi. One nearly complete example of the Code survives today, inscribed on a seven foot, four inch tall diorite stele in the Akkadian language in the cuneiform script.
Cuba Libre: The Cuba Libre (IPA in Spanish, in English, "Free Cuba") is a highball made of Cola, lime, and white rum. This highball is often referred to as a Rum and Coke or a Coke and Sugar in the United States and Canada, where the lime juice is optional.
Cosmic censorship hypothesis: The weak and the strong Cosmic Censorship Hypotheses are two mathematical conjectures about the structure of singularities arising in general relativity. Singularities that arise in the solutions of Einstein's equations are typically hidden within event horizons, and therefore cannot be seen from the rest of spacetime. Singularities which are not so hidden are called naked.
Collagen helix: In collagen, the collagen helix, or type 2 helix, is a major shape in secondary structure. It consists of a triple helix made of the repetitious amino acid sequence glycine - proline - hydroxyproline. Each of the three chains is stabilized by the steric repulsion due to the pyrrolidone rings of proline and hydroxyproline residues.
Crystal Eastman: Crystal Catherine Eastman (June 25, 1881 - July 8, 1928) was a lawyer, antimilitarist, feminist, socialist, and journalist. She is best remembered as a leader in the fight for women's right to vote, as a co-editor of the radical arts and politics magazine The Liberator, and as a co-founder of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.
Christopher Alexander: Christopher Alexander is an architect noted for his theories about design, and for more than 200 building projects in California, Japan, Mexico and around the world. Reasoning that users know more about the buildings they need than any architect could, he produced and validated (in collaboration with Sarah Ishikawa and Murray Silverstein) a "pattern language" designed to empower any human being to design and build at any scale.
Catholic: The word Catholic is derived from the Greek adjective (katholikos), meaning "universal". In the context of Christian ecclesiology, it has a rich history and several usages. The term "Catholic Church" typically refers to the Roman Catholic Church: in full communion with the Bishop of Rome, made up of the Latin Rite and the 22 Eastern Catholic Churches; this is the common usage in most countries.
Chaos: Chaos (derived from the Ancient Greek , Chaos) typically means a state lacking order or predictability. In ancient Greece, it first meant the initial state of the universe, and, by extension, space, darkness, or an abyss (the antithetical concept was cosmos), but later uses of the term by philosophers varied over time.
Corum Jhaelen Irsei: Corum Jhaelen Irsei is the name of a fantasy hero in a series of books written by Michael Moorcock. Corum is an aspect of Moorcock's Eternal Champion and is therefore related to some of his other characters, such as Elric of Melnibon and Dorian Hawkmoon. His books also draw heavily on ancient Celtic mythology, especially the second trilogy as well as similarities to Norse mythology, Corum's loss of both a hand and an eye evoking associations with the gods Odin and Tyr.
Clabbers: Clabbers is a game played by tournament Scrabble players for fun, or occasionally at Scrabble variant tournaments. The name derives from the fact that the words CLABBERS and SCRABBLE form an anagram pair.
Cumberland disambiguation: Cumberland is one of several historic counties of England. Cumberland may also refer to:
Capella: Capella can refer to: A cappella, a music term referring to vocal music or singing without instrumental accompaniment Capella, a genus of snipes now usually included in Gallinago Capella (crater), an impact crater on the Moon, named after the writer Capella Droit, an Award winning Border Collie Dog from Texas Capella (Huesca) municipality in Huesca Province of Spain Capella Island, a minor island of the U. S.
CISC: CISC may refer to: Complex instruction set computer Chongqing Iron and Steel Company Centre for Innovation and Structural Change The Caribbean Island Swimming Championships Criminal Intelligence Service Canada
The Canterbury Tales: The Canterbury Tales is a collection of stories written in Middle-English by Geoffrey Chaucer at the end of the 14th century. The tales are told as part of a story-telling contest by a group of pilgrims as they travel together on a journey from Southwark to the shrine of Saint Thomas Becket at Canterbury Cathedral.
Complex instruction set computer: A complex instruction set computer (CISC, pronounced like "sisk") is a computer instruction set architecture (ISA) in which each instruction can execute several low-level operations, such as a load from memory, an arithmetic operation, and a memory store, all in a single instruction. The term was retroactively coined in contrast to reduced instruction set computer (RISC). Examples of CISC processor families are System/360, PDP-11, VAX, 68000, and x86.
Cetacea: The order Cetacea (L. cetus, whale, from Greek) includes the marine mammals commonly known as whales, dolphins, and porpoises. Cetus is Latin and is used in biological names to mean "whale"; its original meaning, "large sea animal", was more general. It comes from Ancient Greek (ktos), meaning "whale" or "any huge fish or sea monster". In Greek mythology the monster Perseus defeated was called Ceto, which is depicted by the constellation of Cetus.
Christine de Pizan: Christine de Pisan (also seen as de Pizan) (1365-c.1434) was a Venetian-born woman of the medieval era who strongly challenged misogyny and stereotypes prevalent in the male-dominated realm of the arts. As a poet, she was well known and highly regarded in her own day. She spent most of her childhood and all of her adult life primarily in Paris and then the abbey at Poissy, and wrote entirely in her adoptive tongue of Middle French.
Cerebrospinal fluid: Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), Liquor cerebrospinalis, is a clear bodily fluid that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain. In essence, the brain "floats" in it. The CSF occupies the space between the arachnoid mater (the middle layer of the brain cover, meninges), and the pia mater (the layer of the meninges closest to the brain).
Charles F. Hockett: Charles Francis Hockett (January 17, 1916 - November 3, 2000) was an American linguist who developed many influential ideas in American structuralist linguistics. He represents the post-Bloomfieldian phase of structuralism often referred to as "distributionalism" or "taxonomic structuralism". His academic career spanned over half a century in Cornell and Rice universities.
Clarence Brown: Clarence Brown (May 10, 1890 - August 17, 1987) was an American film director.
Consilience: Consilience, or the unity of knowledge (literally a "jumping together" of knowledge), has its roots in the ancient Greek concept of an intrinsic orderliness that governs our cosmos, inherently comprehensible by logical process, a vision at odds with mystical views in many cultures that surrounded the Hellenes. The rational view was recovered during the high Middle Ages, separated from theology during the Renaissance and found its apogee in the Age of Enlightenment.
Catharism: Catharism was a name given to a Christian religious sect with dualistic and gnostic elements that appeared in the Languedoc region of France and other parts of Europe in the 11th century and flourished in the 12th and 13th centuries. Catharism had its roots in the Paulician movement in Armenia and the Bogomils of Bulgaria with whom the Paulicians merged. They also became influenced by dualist and, perhaps, Manichaean beliefs.
Conciliation: Conciliation is an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) process whereby the parties to a dispute (including future interest disputes) agree to utilize the services of a conciliator, who then meets with the parties separately in an attempt to resolve their differences. He does this by lowering tensions, improving communications, interpreting issues, providing technical assistance, exploring potential solutions and bringing about a negotiated settlement.
Cyclone programming language: The Cyclone programming language is intended to be a safe dialect of the C programming language. Cyclone is designed to avoid buffer overflows and other vulnerabilities that are endemic in C programs, without losing the power and convenience of C as a tool for systems programming. Cyclone development was started as a joint project of AT&T Labs Research and Greg Morrisett's group at Cornell in 2001. Version 1.0 was released on May 8, 2006.
Cognitivism: The word cognitivism is used in several ways: In ethics, cognitivism is the philosophical view that ethical sentences express propositions, and hence are capable of being true or false. See Cognitivism (ethics). More generally, cognitivism with respect to any area of discourse is the position that sentences used in that discourse are cognitive, that is, are meaningful and capable of being true or false.
Counter: In digital logic and computing, a counter is a device which stores (and sometimes displays) the number of times a particular event or process has occurred, often in relationship to a clock signal. In practice, there are two types of counters: Up counters, which increase in value Down counters, which decrease in value
Cervical mucus method: Cervical mucus method may refer to a specific method of fertility awareness or natural family planning: Billings ovulation method Creighton Model FertilityCare System Two Day Method
Coleridge: Coleridge may refer to: Coleridge, Nebraska, a village in the U.S.
Clay Mathematics Institute: The Clay Mathematics Institute (CMI) is a private, non-profit foundation, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Institute is dedicated to increasing and disseminating mathematical knowledge. It gives out various awards and sponsorships to promising mathematicians. The institute was founded in 1998 through the vision and generosity of Boston businessman Landon T. Clay. Harvard mathematician Arthur Jaffe was the first president of CMI.
Cerebral arteriovenous malformation: Cerebral arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is a malformed collection of blood vessels within the brain, characterized by tangle(s) of veins and arteries. While an arteriovenous malformation can occur elsewhere in the body, this article discusses malformations found in the brain.
Council of Constance: The Council of Constance is the 15th ecumenical council recognized by the Roman Catholic Church, held from 1414 to 1418. The council ended the Western Schism, by deposing or accepting the resignation of the remaining Papal claimants and electing Pope Martin V. The Council also condemned and executed Jan Hus and ruled on issues of national sovereignty, the rights of pagans, and just war in response to a conflict between the Kingdom of Poland and the Order of the Teutonic Knights.
Comparative method: In linguistics, the comparative method is a technique for studying the development of languages by performing a feature-by-feature comparison of two or more languages, as opposed to the method of internal reconstruction, which analyzes the internal development of a single language over time.
Canadian Unitarian Council: The Canadian Unitarian Council (CUC) is the national body for Unitarian Universalists in Canada. The CUC is a member of the International Council of Unitarians and Universalists.
Churches Uniting in Christ: Churches Uniting in Christ (CUIC) brings together ten mainline American denominations (including both predominantly white and predominantly black churches), and was inaugurated on January 20, 2002. CUIC is the successor organization to the Consultation on Church Union (COCU) founded in 1962. The original task of COCU was to negotiate a merger between its ten member denominations; however, the membership of the denominations overwhelmingly rejected a merger when it was proposed in 1969.
Charles Mingus: Charles Mingus, Jr. (April 22, 1922 - January 5, 1979) was an American jazz musician, composer, bandleader, and human rights activist. Having released numerous records of high regard, Mingus is considered one of the most important composers and performers of jazz as well as a pioneer in bass technique. Dozens of musicians passed through his bands and later went on to impressive careers.
Committee on Data for Science and Technology: CODATA (Committee on Data for Science and Technology) was established in 1966 as an interdisciplinary committee of the International Council of Science (ICSU), formerly the International Council of Scientific Unions. It seeks to improve the compilation, critical evaluation, storage, and retrieval of data of importance to science and technology. The CODATA Task Group on Fundamental Constants was established in 1969.
Centimetre: A centimetre is a unit of length in the metric system, equal to one hundredth of a metre, which is the current SI base unit of length. Centi is the SI prefix for a factor of 10. Hence a centimetre can be written as 10 10 m or 1E&minus;2 m meaning 10 10 mm or 1 m/100 respectively. The centimetre is the base unit of length in the now deprecated centimetre-gram-second (CGS) system of units.
Costume: The term costume can refer to wardrobe and dress in general, or to the distinctive style of dress of a particular people, class, or period.
Chuck Jones: Charles Martin "Chuck" Jones (September 21, 1912 - February 22, 2002) was an American animator, cartoon artist, screenwriter, producer, and director of animated films, most memorably of Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies shorts for the Warner Bros. Cartoons studio. He directed many of the classic short animated cartoons starring Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, the Road Runner and Wile E.
Cable car railway: A cable car or cable railway is a mass transit system using rail cars that are hauled by a continuously moving cable running at a constant speed. Individual cars stop and start by releasing and gripping this cable as required. Cable cars are distinct from funiculars, where the cars are permanently attached to the cable, and cable railways, which are similar to funiculars, but where the rail vehicles are attached and detached manually.
Computer monitor: A monitor or display (sometimes called a visual display unit) is an electronic visual display for computers. The monitor comprises the display device, circuitry, and an enclosure. The display device in modern monitors is typically a thin film transistor liquid crystal display (TFT-LCD), while older monitors use a cathode ray tube (CRT).
ClearType: ClearType is a trademark for Microsoft's implementation of subpixel rendering technology. ClearType attempts to improve the appearance of text on certain types of computer display screens by sacrificing color fidelity for additional intensity variation. This trade-off is asserted to work well on LCD flat panel monitors. ClearType was first announced at the November 1998 COMDEX exhibition.
Centriole: A centriole is a barrel-shaped cell structure found in most animal eukaryotic cells, though absent in higher plants and most fungi. The walls of each centriole are usually composed of nine triplets of microtubules (protein of the cytoskeleton). Deviations from this structure include Drosophila melanogaster embryos, with nine doublets, and Caenorhabditis elegans sperm cells and early embryos, with nine singlets.
List of cartographers: Cartography is the study of map making and cartographers are map makers.
Creaky voice: In linguistics, creaky voice (sometimes called laryngealisation, pulse phonation, vocal fry, or glottal fry), is a special kind of phonation in which the arytenoid cartilages in the larynx are drawn together; as a result, the vocal folds are compressed rather tightly, becoming relatively slack and compact. They vibrate irregularly at 20-50 pulses per second, about two octaves below the frequency of normal voicing, and the airflow through the glottis is very slow.
Creation Science: Creation Science or scientific creationism is a branch of creationism which attempts to provide scientific support for the Genesis creation myth, and disprove generally accepted scientific facts, theories and scientific paradigms about the history of the Earth, cosmology and biological evolution. Its most vocal proponents are fundamentalist Christians in the United States who seek to prove Biblical inerrancy and nullify the scientific evidence for evolution.
C-130 Hercules: The Lockheed C-130 Hercules is a four-engine turboprop military transport aircraft designed and built originally by Lockheed, now Lockheed Martin. Capable of using unprepared runways for takeoffs and landings, the C-130 was originally designed as a troop, medical evacuation, and cargo transport aircraft.
Commodore 1570: The Commodore 1570 was a 5" floppy disk drive for the Commodore 128 home/personal computer. It was a single-sided, 170KB version of the double-sided Commodore 1571, released as a stopgap measure when Commodore International was unable to provide large enough quantities of 1571s due to a shortage of double-sided drive mechanisms. Like the 1571, it could read and write both GCR and MFM disk formats.
Cocaine: Cocaine (benzoylmethylecgonine) is a crystalline tropane alkaloid that is obtained from the leaves of the coca plant. The name comes from "coca" in addition to the alkaloid suffix -ine, forming cocaine. It is a stimulant of the central nervous system and an appetite suppressant. Specifically, it is a serotonin-norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor, which mediates functionality of such as an exogenous catecholamine transporter ligand.
Cirth: The Cirth are the letters of an artificial script which was invented by J. R. R. Tolkien for the constructed languages he devised and used in his works. The initial C in Cirth is pronounced as a K, never as an S. The runic alphabet used by the Dwarves of Middle-earth was adapted by J.R.R. Tolkien from real-life runes. In The Hobbit, the Anglo-Saxon futhorc was used in the publication with few changes; in The Lord of the Rings a new system of runes, the Cirth, was devised.
Commodore 1571: The Commodore 1571 was Commodore's high-end 5" floppy disk drive. With its double-sided drive mechanism, it had the ability to utilize double-sided, double-density (DS/DD) floppy disks natively. This was in contrast to its predecessors, the 1541 and 1570, which could read or write such disks only if the user manually flipped them over to access the second side. The 1571 was released to match the Commodore 128, both design-wise and feature-wise.
Cartesian coordinate system: A Cartesian coordinate system specifies each point uniquely in a plane by a pair of numerical coordinates, which are the signed distances from the point to two fixed perpendicular directed lines, measured in the same unit of length. Each reference line is called a coordinate axis or just axis of the system, and the point where they meet is its origin.
California Department of Transportation: The California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) is a government department in the U.S. state of California. Its mission is to improve mobility across the state. It manages the state highway system (which includes the California Freeway and Expressway System) and is actively involved with public transportation systems throughout the state. The department is part of the state cabinet-level California Business, Transportation and Housing Agency. It has its headquarters in Sacramento.
Commandant of the Marine Corps: The Commandant of the Marine Corps (CMC) is the highest-ranking officer in the United States Marine Corps and is a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The CMC reports directly to the United States Secretary of the Navy (but not to the Chief of Naval Operations) and is responsible for ensuring the organization, policy, plans, and programs for the Marine Corps as well as advising the President, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Navy on matters involving the Marine Corps.
Chinese remainder theorem: The Chinese remainder theorem is a result about congruences in number theory and its generalizations in abstract algebra.
Cyril M. Kornbluth: Cyril M. Kornbluth (July 23, 1923 - March 21, 1958) was an American science fiction author and a notable member of the Futurians. He used a variety of pen-names, including Cecil Corwin, S. D. Gottesman, Edward J. Bellin, Kenneth Falconer, Walter C. Davies, Simon Eisner, and Jordan Park. (The "M" in Kornbluth's name is in tribute to his wife, Mary Byers; Frederik Pohl confirmed the lack of any actual middle name in at least one interview.)
Continuation War: The Continuation War (25 June 1941 - 19 September 1944) was the second of two wars fought between Finland and the Soviet Union during World War II. At the time of the war, the Finnish side used the name to make clear its perceived relationship to the preceding Winter War. The Soviet Union saw the war as a part of its struggle against Germany and its allies, the Great Patriotic War. Germany saw its operations in the region as a part of its overall war efforts of World War II.
C. L. Moore: Catherine Lucille Moore (January 24, 1911-April 4, 1987) was an American science fiction and fantasy writer, as C. L. Moore. She was one of the first women to write in the genre, and paved the way for many other female writers in speculative fiction.
Carmichael number: In number theory, a Carmichael number is a composite positive integer which satisfies the congruence for all integers which are relatively prime to . They are named for Robert Carmichael. The Carmichael numbers are the Knel numbers K1.
Compactron: The Compactron is a 12-pin vacuum tube family introduced in 1961 by General Electric in Owensboro, Kentucky to compete with transistorized electronics during the solid state transition. Television sets were a primary application. Compactrons are electronic vacuum tube units which contain arrangements of diodes, triodes, or pentodes in multiple combination arrays, as well as high or low-voltage and power types.
Coprophagia: Coprophagia is the consumption of feces, from the Greek copros ("feces") and phagein ("to eat"). Many animal species practice coprophagia as a matter of course; other species do not normally consume feces but may do so under unusual conditions. Coprophagy refers to many kind of feces eating including eating feces of other species (heterospecifics), other individuals (allocoprophagy), or its own (autocoprophagy), those once deposited or taken directly from the anus.
Claude Piron: Claude Piron (26 February 1931 - 22 January 2008), a linguist and psychologist, was a translator for the United Nations from 1956 to 1961. After leaving the UN, he worked the world over for the World Health Organization. He was a prolific author of Esperanto works. He spoke Esperanto from childhood and used it in Japan, the People's Republic of China, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, in Africa and Latin America, and in nearly all the countries of Europe.
Captain America: Captain America is a fictional character that appears in comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character first appeared in Captain America Comics #1 (March 1941), from Marvel Comics' 1940s predecessor, Timely Comics, and was created by Joe Simon and Jack Kirby. Over the years, an estimated 210 million copies of "Captain America" comic books have been sold in a total of 75 countries.
Cyclops disambiguation: A cyclops is a one-eyed monster in Greek mythology. Cyclops or The Cyclops may also refer to:
Christian countercult movement: The Christian countercult movement is a collective description for many, mostly unrelated, Christian ministries and individual Christians who oppose religious groups whose doctrines or practices do not fit within their definition of mainstream Christianity, which they consider to be cults. They are also known as discernment ministries.
Professor X: Professor Charles Francis Xavier, also known as Professor X, is a fictional character, a Marvel Comics superhero known as the leader and founder of the X-Men. Throughout most of his comic book history, Xavier is paraplegic, although his body houses one of the world's most powerful mutant minds. As a high-level telepath, Xavier can read, control and influence human minds. A scientific genius, he is also a leading authority on genetics, mutation, and psionic powers.
Central Pacific Railroad: The Central Pacific Railroad (CPRR) is the former name of the railroad network built between California and Utah, USA that formed part of the first Transcontinental Railroad in North America. It is now part of the Union Pacific Railroad. Many 19th century national proposals to build a transcontinental railroad failed because of the energy consumed by political disputes over slavery. With the secession of the South, the modernizers in the Republican Party controlled the US Congress.
Clairvoyance: The term clairvoyance (from 17th century French with clair meaning "clear" and voyance meaning "vision") is used to refer to the ability to gain information about an object, person, location or physical event through means other than the known human senses, a form of extra-sensory perception. A person said to have the ability of clairvoyance is referred to as a clairvoyant ("one who sees clearly").
Chiropractic: Chiropractic is a health care discipline and profession that emphasizes diagnosis, treatment and prevention of mechanical disorders of the musculoskeletal system, especially the spine, under the hypothesis that these disorders affect general health via the nervous system. It is generally categorized as complementary and alternative medicine (CAM), a characterization that many chiropractors reject.
Carbide: In chemistry, a carbide is a compound composed of carbon and a less electronegative element. Carbides can be generally classified by chemical bonding type as follows: (i) salt-like, (ii) covalent compounds, (iii) interstitial compounds, and (iv) "intermediate" transition metal carbides. Examples include calcium carbide, silicon carbide, tungsten carbide (often called simply carbide), and cementite, each used in key industrial applications.
Controlled Substances Act: The Controlled Substances Act (CSA) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970. The CSA is the federal U.S. drug policy under which the manufacture, importation, possession, use and distribution of certain substances is regulated. The Act also served as the national implementing legislation for the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs.
Charles C. Krulak: General Charles Chandler Krulak (born March 4, 1942) served as the 31st Commandant of the Marine Corps from July 1, 1995 to June 30, 1999. He is the son of Lt. Gen. Victor H. "Brute" Krulak, USMC, who served in World War II, Korea, and Vietnam. He is currently working as a non-executive director of English association football club Aston Villa.
Compaq: Compaq Computer Corporation is an American personal computer company founded in 1982. Once the largest supplier of personal computing systems in the world, Compaq existed as an independent corporation until 2002, when it was acquired for $25 billion by Hewlett-Packard. The company was formed by Rod Canion, Jim Harris and Bill Murto - former Texas Instruments senior managers.
Cell incubator: A cell incubator is an apparatus used to grow and maintain cell cultures. The incubator keeps cultures at an optimal temperature and humidity. Many will also regulate the carbon dioxide(CO2) and oxygen content of the atmosphere inside, in which case they are also called CO2 incubators. Cell incubators are essential for a lot of experimental work in cell biology and molecular biology and are used to culture both bacterial as well as eukaryotic cells.
Cluny: Cluny or Clugny is a commune in the Sae-et-Loire department in the region of Bourgogne in eastern France. It is 20 km north west of Mon. The town grew up around the Benedictine Cluny Abbey, founded by Duke William I of Aquitaine in A.D. 910. The height of Cluniac influence was from the second half of the 10th century through the early 12th. The abbey was sacked by the Huguenots in 1562 and many of the valuable manuscripts were destroyed or removed.
CPSU disambiguation: CPSU can refer to: Communist Party of the Soviet Union Communist Party of the Soviet Union (1992) Communist Party of the Soviet Union (Shenin) Union of Communist Parties Communist Party of the Soviet Union Civil and Public Services Union - an Irish trade union Community and Public Sector Union - an Australian trade union California Polytechnic State University in San Luis Obispo, California, USA Commonwealth Policy Studies Unit
Circuit Park Zandvoort: Circuit Park Zandvoort is a motorsport race track located in Burgemeester van Alphenstraat 108, 2041 KP in the dunes north of the town of Zandvoort, in the Netherlands, near the North Sea coast line.
Crete Senesi: The Crete Senesi refers to an area of the Italian region of Tuscany to the south of Siena. It consists of a range of hills and woods among villages and includes the comuni of Asciano, Buonconvento, Monteroni d'Arbia, Rapolano Terme and San Giovanni d'Asso, all within the province of Siena. Crete senesi are literally Siennese clays and the distinctive grey colouration of the soil gives the landscape an appearance often described as lunar.
Chet Atkins: Chester Burton Atkins (June 20, 1924 - June 30, 2001), better known as Chet Atkins, was an American guitarist and record producer who created, along with Owen Bradley, the smoother country music style known as the Nashville sound, which expanded country's appeal to adult pop music fans as well. His picking style, inspired by Merle Travis, Django Reinhardt, George Barnes and Les Paul, brought him admirers within and outside the country scene, both in the United States and internationally.
Cahiers du cin ma: Cahiers du Cina (Notebooks on Cinema) is an influential French film magazine founded in 1951 by Andr Bazin, Jacques Doniol-Valcroze and Joseph-Marie Lo Duca. It developed from the earlier magazine Revue du Cina (Review of the Cinema) involving members of two Paris film clubs - Objectif 49 (Objective 49) and Cin-Club du Quartier Latin (Cinema Club of the Latin Quarter).
Carrier battle group: A carrier battle group (CVBG) consists of an aircraft carrier (CV) and its escorts.
Christmas tree: The Christmas tree is a decorated evergreen coniferous tree, real or artificial, and a tradition associated with the celebration of Christmas or the original name Yule. The Christmas tree is often brought into a home, but can also be used in the open, and can be decorated with Christmas lights (originally candles), ornaments, garlands and tinsel during the days around Christmas.
Corporatism: Corporatism also known as corporativism is a system of economic, political, or social organization or thought that views a community as a body based upon organic social solidarity and functional distinction and roles amongst individuals. The term corporatism is based on the Latin word "corpus" meaning "body". In contemporary usage, corporatism is commonly used as a pejorative term against business corporation-dominated politics.
CH-46 Sea Knight: The Boeing CH-46 Sea Knight is a medium-lift tandem rotor transport helicopter, used by the United States Marine Corps (USMC) to provide all-weather, day-or-night assault transport of combat troops, supplies and equipment. Assault Support is its primary function, and the movement of supplies and equipment is secondary. Additional tasks include combat support, search and rescue, support for forward refueling and rearming points, CASEVAC and Tactical Recovery of Aircraft and Personnel (TRAP).
Clara Petacci: Clara Petacci (Claretta Petacci) (28 February 1912 - 28 April 1945) was an upper class Roman who became Italian dictator Benito Mussolini's mistress. Her father had been the personal physician to the Pope. She was twenty-eight years younger than Mussolini. Petacci was with Mussolini to the end.
Costa Smeralda: The Costa Smeralda is a coastal area in northern Sardinia, 55 km long and covering more than 30 km, with enchanting beaches and a system of villages built according to an extremely detailed urban plan.
Chief of Naval Operations: The Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) is the highest ranking officer in the United States Navy and is a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The CNO reports directly to the Secretary of the Navy for the command, utilization of resources and operating efficiency of the operating forces of the Navy and of the Navy shore activities assigned by the Secretary.
Chianti: Chianti is a red Italian wine produced in Tuscany. It was historically associated with a squat bottle enclosed in a straw basket, called a fiasco ("flask"; pl. fiaschi); however, the fiasco is only used by a few makers of the wine now; most Chianti is bottled in traditionally shaped wine bottles. Baron Bettino Ricasoli created the Chianti recipe of 70% Sangiovese, 15% Canaiolo and 15% Malvasia bianca in the middle of the 19th century.
Claude Louis Berthollet: Claude Louis Berthollet (9 December 1748 - 6 November 1822) was a Savoyard-French chemist who became vice president of the French Senate in 1804.
Coriolis effect: In physics, the Coriolis effect is an apparent deflection of moving objects when they are viewed from a rotating reference frame. For example, consider two children on opposite sides of a spinning roundabout, who are throwing a ball to each other (see picture). From the children's point of view, this ball's path is curved sideways by the Coriolis effect. From the thrower's perspective, the deflection is to the right with anticlockwise carousel rotation (viewed from above).
Crystallography: Crystallography is the experimental science of determining the arrangement of atoms in solids. In older usage, it is the scientific study of crystals. The word "crystallography" is derived from the Greek words crystallon = cold drop / frozen drop, with its meaning extending to all solids with some degree of transparency, and graphein = write. Before the development of X-ray diffraction crystallography (see below), the study of crystals was based on the geometry of the crystals.
Claude Auchinleck: Field Marshal Sir Claude John Eyre Auchinleck, GCB, GCIE, CSI, DSO, OBE (21 June 1884 - 23 March 1981), nicknamed "The Auk", was a British army commander during World War II. He was a career soldier who spent much of his military career in India, where he developed a love of the country and a lasting affinity for the soldiers he commanded.
Camilla Hall: Camilla C. Hall (March 24, 1945 - May 17, 1974) was an early member of the Symbionese Liberation Army.
Challenger Deep: The Challenger Deep is the deepest surveyed point in the oceans, with a depth of approximately 36,000ft(11,000)mThe error of measurement is less than a three hundred feet(one hundred metres). It is located at the southern end of the Mariana Trench near the Mariana Islands group. The Challenger Deep is a relatively small slot-shaped depression in the bottom of a considerably larger crescent-shaped trench, which itself is an unusually deep feature in the ocean floor.
Clone: Clone may refer to:
Constitution of Chile: Chile File:Coat of arms of Chile.
Critical psychology: Critical psychology is a branch of psychology that takes a critical theory based perspective. Critical psychology is aimed at critiquing mainstream psychology and which attempts to apply psychology in more progressive ways, often looking towards social change as a means of preventing and treating psychopathology.
Crossfire: A crossfire (also known as "interlocking fire") is a military term for the siting of weapons (often automatic weapons such as machine guns) so that their arcs of fire overlap. This tactic came to prominence in World War I. Siting weapons this way is an example of the application of the defensive principle of mutual support. The advantage of siting weapons that mutually support one another is that it is difficult for an attacker to find a covered approach to any one defensive position.
CNO: CNO is a three-letter acronym. It can mean: Chief of Naval Operations Chief Networking Officer Chief Nursing Officer Chief Nuclear Officer Chino Airport IATA: CNO CNO cycle - a special nuclear fusion process Computer network operations Conseco, under the New York Stock Exchange ticker symbol system Carrier to noise ratio, abbreviated CNO in the context of the GPS
Cruising maritime: Cruising by boat is a lifestyle that involves living for extended time on a boat while traveling from place to place for pleasure. Cruising generally refers to trips of a few days or more, and can extend to round-the-world voyages.
Cavitation: Cavitation is the formation of vapour bubbles of a flowing liquid in a region where the pressure of the liquid falls below its vapor pressure. Cavitation is usually divided into two classes of behavior: inertial (or transient) cavitation, and noninertial cavitation. Inertial cavitation is the process where a void or bubble in a liquid rapidly collapses, producing a shock wave. Such cavitation often occurs in pumps, propellers, impellers, and in the vascular tissues of plants.
Cyprinodontiformes: The Cyprinodontiformes is an order of ray-finned fish, comprising mostly small, fresh-water fish. Many popular aquarium fish, such as killifish and live-bearers, are included. They are closely related to the Atheriniformes and are occasionally included with them. A colloquial term for the order as a whole is toothcarps, though they are not actually close relatives of the true carps - the latter belong to the superorder Ostariophysi, while the toothcarps are Acanthopterygii.
Cernunnos: Cernunnos (also Cernenus and Cern) is a pagan Celtic god whose representations were widespread in the ancient Celtic lands of western Europe. As a horned god, Cernunnos is associated with horned male animals, especially stags and the ram-horned snake; this and other attributes associate him with produce and fertility. Cernunnos is also associated mainly as the God of the Underworld. Everything that we know about this deity comes from two inscriptions from France and one from Germany.
The Cider House Rules: The Cider House Rules is a 1985 novel by John Irving. It has been adapted into a film of the same name and a stage play by Peter Parnell.
Click consonant: Clicks are speech sounds found as consonants in many languages of southern Africa, and in three languages of East Africa. Examples of these sounds familiar to English speakers are the tsk! tsk! (American English) or tut-tut (British English) used to express disapproval or pity, the tchick! used to spur on a horse, and the clip-clop! sound children make to imitate a horse trotting.
Consumer: Consumer is a broad label for any individuals or households that use goods and services generated within the economy. The concept of a consumer occurs in different contexts, so that the usage and significance of the term may vary.
Church of the Holy Sepulchre: The Church of the Holy Sepulchre, also called the Church of the Resurrection by Eastern Christians, is a Christian church within the walled Old City of Jerusalem. The site is venerated by many Christians as Golgotha, (the Hill of Calvary), where the New Testament says that Jesus was crucified, and is said to also contain the place where Jesus was buried.
CCC: CCC may refer to:
Caribbean Sea: The Caribbean Sea is a sea of the Atlantic Ocean situated in the tropics of the Western hemisphere. It is bounded to the southwest by the Central American countries of Panama, to the west by Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala, Belize, and Mexico, to the north by The Greater Antilles Jamaica, Hispaniola, and Puerto Rico, and to the east by the Lesser Antilles.
Civilian Conservation Corps: The Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) was a public work relief program for unemployed men, providing vocational training through the performance of useful work related to conservation and development of natural resources in the United States from 1933 to 1942. As part of the New Deal legislation proposed by U.S. President Franklin D.
Colin Maclaurin: Colin Maclaurin (February 1698 - 14 June 1746) was a Scottish mathematician. Due to changes in orthography since that time (his name was originally rendered as e.g. "M'Laurine"), his surname is alternatively written MacLaurin. In Gaelic the name is "Cailean MacLabhruinn", which is literally 'Colin, the son of Laurence.'
Covenant-breaker: A Covenant-breaker or the act of Covenant-breaking is a term used by Bah's to refer to a particular form of heresy. Being declared a Covenant-breaker by the head of the Faith - which since 1963 refers to the elected nine-member Universal House of Justice, the governing body of the Bah's - is somewhat equivalent to Cherem in Judaism, Anathema (or major excommunication) in Christianity and Takfir in Islamic law, i.e.
Cactus: A cactus is any member of the plant family Cactaceae, native to the Americas (with one exception, Rhipsalis baccifera, which is native to parts of the Old World). They are often used as ornamental plants, and some are also crop plants for fodder, forage, fruits, cochineal, and other uses. Numerous species have been used since ancient times by indigenous peoples for their psychedelic effects.
Chaos Computer Club: The Chaos Computer Club (CCC) is an organization of hackers. The CCC is based in Germany and other German-speaking countries and currently has over 4,000 members. The CCC describes itself as "a galactic community of life's beings, independent of age, sex, race or societal orientation, which strives across borders for freedom of information. " In general, the CCC advocates more transparency in government, freedom of information, and human right to communication.
Convention norm: A convention is a set of agreed, stipulated or generally accepted standards, norms, social norms or criteria, often taking the form of a custom. Certain types of rules or customs may become law and regulatory legislation may be introduced to formalise or enforce the convention (e.g. , laws that define on which side of the road vehicles must be driven). In a social context, a convention may retain the character of an "unwritten" law of custom (e.g.
Concord Michigan: Concord is a village in Jackson County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 1,101 at the 2000 census. The village is located at 421040N 843835W; / ;42.17778 84.64306; / 42.17778; -84.64306, west of Spring Arbor, Michigan.
Complete metric space: In mathematical analysis, a metric space M is said to be complete (or Cauchy) if every Cauchy sequence of points in M has a limit that is also in M or alternatively if every Cauchy sequence in M converges in M. Intuitively, a space is complete if there are no "points missing" from it (inside or at the boundary). Thus, a complete metric space is analogous to a closed set.
Caddy: In golf, a caddy (or caddie) is the person who carries a player's bag, and gives insightful advice and moral support. A good caddy is aware of the challenges and obstacles of the golf course being played, along with the best strategy in playing it. This includes knowing overall yardage, pin placements and club selection. A caddy is not usually an employee of a private club or resort.
The Amazing Criswell: Jeron Criswell King (August 18, 1907 - October 4, 1982) born Jeron Criswell Konig, and known by his stage-name The Amazing Criswell, was an American psychic known for wildly inaccurate predictions. In person, he went by Charles Criswell King, and was sometimes credited as Jeron King Criswell.
Chain reaction: A chain reaction is a sequence of reactions where a reactive product or by-product causes additional reactions to take place. In a chain reaction, positive feedback leads to a self-amplifying chain of events. The neutron-fission chain reaction: a neutron plus a fissionable atom causes a fission resulting in a larger number of neutrons than was consumed in the initial reaction.
Compound turbine: A compound turbine is a turbine in which there are two casings, a high-pressure casing and a low-pressure casing, operating in concert to extract work from a single source of steam. The steam is partially expanded in the high-pressure casing, then exhausted to the low-pressure casing. The rotor arrangement can be either tandem-compound in which the two axles are joined end to end, or cross-compound in which the two turbines have separate axles.
Corona: A corona is a type of plasma "atmosphere" of the Sun or other celestial body, extending millions of kilometers into space, most easily seen during a total solar eclipse, but also observable in a coronagraph. The Latin root of the word corona means crown. The high temperature of the corona gives it unusual spectral features, which led some to suggest, in the 19th century, that it contained a previously unknown element, "coronium".
Chrono Cross: Chrono Cross is a console role-playing game developed and published by Square for the Sony PlayStation video game console. It is the sequel to Chrono Trigger, which was released in 1995 for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. Chrono Cross was developed primarily by scenarist and director Masato Kato and other designers from Chrono Trigger, including art director Yasuyuki Honne and composer Yasunori Mitsuda. Nobuteru Yki designed the characters of the game.
Common Chimpanzee: The Common Chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), also known as the Robust Chimpanzee, is a great ape. The name troglodytes, Greek for 'cave-dweller', was coined by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach in his Handbuch der Naturgeschichte (Handbook of Natural History) published in 1779. Colloquially, it is often called the chimpanzee (or simply 'chimp'), though technically this term refers to both species in the genus Pan: the Common Chimpanzee and the closely-related Bonobo, or Pygmy Chimpanzee.
Planned economy: Planned economy (or directed economy) is an economic system in which the state or workers' councils manage the economy. It is an economic system in which the central government makes all decisions on the production and consumption of goods and services. Its most extensive form is referred to as a command economy, centrally planned economy, or command and control economy.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease: Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT), known also as Hereditary Motor and Sensory Neuropathy (HMSN), Hereditary Sensorimotor Neuropathy (HSMN), or Peroneal Muscular Atrophy, is an inherited disorder of nerves that takes different forms. It is characterized by loss of muscle tissue and touch sensation, predominantly in the feet and legs but also in the hands and arms in the advanced stages of disease.
Central pontine myelinolysis: Central pontine myelinolysis is a neurologic disease caused by severe damage of the myelin sheath of nerve cells in the brainstem, more precisely in the area termed the pons. It can also occur outside the pons. The term "osmotic demyelinization syndrome" is similar to "central pontine myelinolysis", but also includes areas outside the pons.
Chomsky normal form: In computer science, a context-free grammar is said to be in Chomsky normal form if all of its production rules are of the form: or &alpha; or &epsilon; where, and are nonterminal symbols, is a terminal symbol (a symbol that represents a constant value), is the start symbol, and is the empty string. Also, neither nor may be the start symbol.
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty: The Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) bans all nuclear explosions in all environments, for military or civilian purposes. It was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 September 1996 but it has not yet entered into force.
Crystallographic defect: Crystalline solids have a very regular atomic structure: that is, the local positions of atoms with respect to each other are repeated at the atomic scale. These arrangements are called crystal structures, and their study is called crystallography. However, most crystalline materials are not perfect: the regular pattern of atomic arrangement is interrupted by crystallographic defects. . The various types of defects are enumerated here.
Dance: Dance is an art form that generally refers to movement of the body, usually rhythmic and to music, used as a form of expression, social interaction or presented in a spiritual or performance setting. Dance may also be regarded as a form of nonverbal communication between humans, and is also performed by other animals. Gymnastics, figure skating and synchronized swimming are sports that incorporate dance, while martial arts kata are often compared to dances.
D. W. Griffith: David Llewelyn Wark Griffith (January 22, 1875 - July 23, 1948) was a premier pioneering American film director. He is best known as the director of the controversial and groundbreaking 1915 film The Birth of a Nation and the subsequent film Intolerance (1916). Griffith's film The Birth of a Nation made pioneering use of advanced camera and narrative techniques, and its immense popularity set the stage for the dominance of the feature-length film.
Direct realism: Direct realism, also known as nave realism or common sense realism, is a theory of perception that claims that the senses provide us with direct awareness of the external world. In contrast, indirect realism and representationalism claim that we are directly aware only of internal representations of the external world. Idealism, on the other hand, asserts that no world exists apart from mind-dependent ideas.
Drew Barrymore: Drew Blyth Barrymore (born February 22, 1975) is an American actress, film producer and film director. She is a member of the Barrymore family of American actors and granddaughter of John Barrymore. She first appeared in an advertisement when she was eleven months old. Barrymore made her film debut in Altered States in 1980. Afterwards, she starred in her breakout role in E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial.
Dune: In physical geography, a dune is a hill of sand built by aeolian processes. Dunes occur in different forms and sizes, formed by interaction with the wind. Most kinds of dunes are longer on the windward side where the sand is pushed up the dune and have a shorter "slip face" in the lee of the wind. The valley or trough between dunes is called a slack. A "dune field" is an area covered by extensive sand dunes. Large dune fields are known as ergs.
Dale Earnhardt: Ralph Dale Earnhardt Sr. (April 29, 1951 - February 18, 2001), better known simply as Dale Earnhardt, was an American race car driver, best known for his career driving stock cars in NASCAR's top division and being one of the most famous drivers to die in a racing crash. Dale Earnhardt is notable for his success in the Winston Cup Series, now known as the Sprint Cup Series, winning seventy-six races. Earnhardt's seven championships are tied for most all-time with Richard Petty.
David Cronenberg: David Paul Cronenberg, OC, FRSC (born March 15, 1943) is a Canadian filmmaker, screenwriter, and occasional actor. He is one of the principal originators of what is commonly known as the body horror or venereal horror genre. This style of filmmaking explores people's fears of bodily transformation and infection. In his films, the psychological is typically intertwined with the physical.
List of Dune games: A number of games have been based on Frank Herbert's Dune universe:
David Lynch: David Keith Lynch (born January 20, 1946) is an American filmmaker and visual artist. Over a lengthy career, Lynch has employed a distinctive and unorthodox approach to narrative filmmaking (dubbed Lynchian), which has become instantly recognizable to many audiences and critics worldwide. Lynch's films are known for nightmarish and dreamlike images and meticulously crafted sound design. Lynch's work often depicts a seedy underside of small town America, or sprawling California metropolises.
Dune computer and video games: A number of computer games based on Frank Herbert's science fiction novel Dune and its two adaptations for film and television were created:
List of Dune characters: This is a list of the characters who appear in the novels of the fictional Dune universe, created by Frank Herbert and later expanded by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson. This article provides links to many of the main characters in the Dune universe. They are grouped by primary allegiances. In some cases these allegiances change or reveal themselves to be different throughout the novels.
Piter De Vries: Piter De Vries is a fictional character from the Dune universe created by Frank Herbert. He is featured in 1965's Dune, the original novel in the science fiction series, as well as the Prelude to Dune prequel trilogy (1999-2001) by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson. In David Lynch's 1984 adaptation of the first novel, De Vries was played by Brad Dourif. He was portrayed by Jan Unger in the 2000 Sci Fi Channel Dune miniseries.
Vladimir Harkonnen: The Baron Vladimir Harkonnen is a fictional character from the Dune universe created by Frank Herbert. He is primarily featured in the 1965 novel Dune, but is also a major character in the Prelude to Dune prequel trilogy (1999-2001) by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson. The character is brought back as a ghola in the Herbert/Anderson sequels which conclude the original series, Hunters of Dune (2006) and Sandworms of Dune (2007).
Discrete probability distribution: Discrete probability distributions arise in the mathematical description of probabilistic and statistical problems in which the values that might be observed are restricted to being within a pre-defined list of possible values. This list has either a finite number of members, or at most is countable.
Diffie Hellman key exchange: Diffie-Hellman key exchange (D-H) is a cryptographic protocol that allows two parties that have no prior knowledge of each other to jointly establish a shared secret key over an insecure communications channel. This key can then be used to encrypt subsequent communications using a symmetric key cipher.
Destry Rides Again: Destry Rides Again is a 1939 western directed by George Marshall, starring Marlene Dietrich, James Stewart, Mischa Auer, Charles Winninger, Brian Donlevy, Allen Jenkins, Irene Hervey, Billy Gilbert, Bill Cody, Jr. and Una Merkel. The original Max Brand novel was translated into an "oater" with the town of Bottleneck set on a Hollywood sound stage.
Derivative: In calculus (a branch of mathematics) the derivative is a measure of how a function changes as its input changes. Loosely speaking, a derivative can be thought of as how much a quantity is changing at a given point; for example, the derivative of the position of a vehicle with respect to time is the instantaneous velocity at which the vehicle is traveling.
Dravidian languages: The Dravidian family of languages includes approximately 85 languages, spoken by around 200 million people. They are mainly spoken in southern India and parts of eastern and central India as well as in northeastern Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Iran, and overseas in other countries such as Malaysia and Singapore. Among them Tulu, Kannada, Telugu, Tamil and Malayalam are the members with the most speakers.
Dracula: Dracula is an 1897 novel by Irish author Bram Stoker, featuring as its primary antagonist the vampire Count Dracula. It was first published as a hardcover in 1897 by Archibald Constable and Co. Dracula has been attributed to many literary genres including vampire literature, horror fiction, the gothic novel and invasion literature. Structurally it is an epistolary novel, that is, told as a series of letters, diary entries, ships' logs, etc.
Dalton Trumbo: Dalton Trumbo (December 9, 1905 - September 10, 1976) was an American screenwriter and novelist, and one of the Hollywood Ten, a group of film professionals who testified before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) in 1947 during the committee's investigation of Communist influences in the motion picture industry.
David Hume: David Hume (7 May 1711 - 25 August 1776) was a Scottish philosopher, economist, historian and an important figure in the history of Western philosophy and the Scottish Enlightenment. Hume is often grouped with John Locke, George Berkeley, and a handful of others as a British Empiricist.
Dictionary: A dictionary or wordbook is a collection of words in one or more specific languages, often listed alphabetically, with usage information, definitions, etymologies, phonetics, pronunciations, and other information; or a book of words in one language with their equivalents in another, also known as a lexicon.
Delaware: Delaware is a U.S. state located on the Atlantic Coast in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States. The state takes its name from Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, a British nobleman and Virginia's first colonial governor, after whom (what is now called) Cape Henlopen was originally named. Delaware is located in the northeastern portion of the Delmarva Peninsula and is the second smallest state in area.
David D. Friedman: David Director Friedman (born February 12, 1945) is an American writer who became a leading figure in the anarcho-capitalist community with the publication of his book The Machinery of Freedom (1973, revised 1989). He has also authored the books Price Theory: An Intermediate Text (1986), Law's Order (2000), Hidden Order: The Economics of Everyday Life (1996), and Future Imperfect (2008).
Diatomic molecule: Diatomic molecules are molecules composed only of two atoms, of either the same or different chemical elements. The prefix di- means two in Greek. Common diatomic molecules are hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and carbon monoxide. Most elements aside from the noble gases form diatomic molecules when heated, but high temperatures- sometimes thousands of kelvins- are often required.
Duopoly: A true duopoly is a specific type of oligopoly where only two producers exist in one market. In reality, this definition is generally used where only two firms have dominant control over a market. In the field of industrial organization, it is the most commonly studied form of oligopoly due to its simplicity.
Dungeons Dragons: Dungeons & Dragons (abbreviated as D&D or DnD) is a fantasy role-playing game (RPG) originally designed by Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson, and first published in 1974 by Tactical Studies Rules, Inc. (TSR). The game has been published by Wizards of the Coast since 1997. It was derived from miniature wargames with a variation of the Chainmail game serving as the initial rule system.
Disbarment: Disbarment is the removal of a lawyer from a bar association and/or the practice of law, thus revoking his or her law license and/or admission to practice law. Procedures vary depending on countries.
Double jeopardy: Double jeopardy is a procedural defense that forbids a defendant from being tried twice for the same crime on the same set of facts. At common law a defendant may plead autrefois acquit or autrefois convict, meaning the defendant has been acquitted or convicted of the same offense.
Dog tag identifier: A dog tag is the informal name for the identification tags worn by military personnel, because of their resemblance to actual dog tags. The tag is primarily used for the identification of dead and wounded along with providing essential basic medical information for the treatment of the latter such as blood type and history of inoculations.
Drum: The Drum is a member of the percussion group of music instruments, technically classified as the membranous. Drums consist of at least one membrane, called a drumhead or drum skin, that is stretched over a shell and struck, either directly with the player's hands, or with a drumstick, to produce sound. Other techniques have been used to cause drums to make sound, such as the "Thumb roll".
Digital Equipment Corporation: Digital Equipment Corporation was a pioneering American computer company, for a long time one of the most admired within the hacker community. Initially focusing on the small-end of the computer market allowed DEC to grow without its potential competitors noticing, or caring enough to make serious efforts to compete with them. Their PDP series of machines became runaway best-sellers in the 1960s, especially the PDP-8, widely considered to be the first successful minicomputer.
Delphi: Delphi is both an archaeological site and a modern town in Greece on the south-western spur of Mount Parnassus in the valley of Phocis. In Greek mythology, Delphi was the site of the Delphic oracle, the most important oracle in the classical Greek world, and a major site for the worship of the god Apollo after he slew the Python, a deity who lived there and protected the navel of the Earth.
Dead Kennedys: The Dead Kennedys were an American hardcore punk band, formed in San Francisco, California in 1978. Pioneers of hardcore during the 1980s, the band gained a large underground following in the international punk music scene. Their music mixed the more experimental elements of British 1970s punk with the raw energy of the 1980s American hardcore punk scene.
Deflation disambiguation: Deflation may also refer to: A release or escape of air or gas from an inflatable, resulting in its shrinking or collapsing. The Great Deflation, a period of worldwide economic deflation occurring roughly between the years 1870-1890. DEFLATE (algorithm), a widely used lossless compression algorithm originating from the program PKZIP. Eolian erosion, also called deflation. Dividing a polynomial by a linear factor which decreases its degree by one.
Kennedy family: For other uses, see Kennedy In the United States, the phrase Kennedy family commonly refers to the family descending from the marriage of the Irish-Americans Joseph P. Kennedy, Sr. and Rose Elizabeth Fitzgerald that is prominent in American politics and government. Their political involvement has revolved around the Democratic Party. Harvard University educations have been common among them, and they have contributed heavily to that university's John F. Kennedy School of Government.
DNA: Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a nucleic acid that contains the genetic instructions used in the development and functioning of all known living organisms and some viruses. The main role of DNA molecules is the long-term storage of information. DNA is often compared to a set of blueprints or a recipe, or a code, since it contains the instructions needed to construct other components of cells, such as proteins and RNA molecules.
Logical disjunction: In logic and mathematics, or, also known as logical disjunction or inclusive disjunction, is a logical operator that results in true whenever one or more of its operands are true. E.g. in this context, "A or B" is true if A is true, or if B is true, or if both A and B are true. In grammar, or is a coordinating conjunction. In ordinary language "or" sometimes has the meaning of exclusive disjunction.
Deduction and induction: Deduction and induction may refer to: Deductive reasoning Inductive reasoning Validity Cogency
Disjunctive syllogism: A disjunctive syllogism, historically known as modus tollendo ponens, is a classically valid, simple argument form: A is B or C or D A is not C or D Therefore, A is B In logical operator notation: where represents the logical assertion. Roughly speaking, we are told that at least one of two statements is true; then we are told that it is not the former that is true; so we infer that it has to be the latter that is true.
Democracy: Democracy is a political government carried out either directly by the people (direct democracy) or by means of elected representatives of the people. The term is derived from the Greek: - (dmokrata) "rule of the people", which was coined from (dmos) "people" and (kros) "power", in the middle of the fifth-fourth century BC to denote the political systems then existing in some Greek city-states, notably Athens following a popular uprising in 508 BC.
Definition: A definition is a passage describing the meaning of a term. The term to be defined is the ' (plural definienda). A term may have many different senses or meanings. For each such specific sense, a ' (plural definientia) is a cluster of words that defines it. A chief difficulty in managing definition is the need to use other terms that are already understood or whose definitions are easily obtainable. The use of the term in a simple example may suffice.
Disruption: Disruption is the (usually deliberate or intended) interruption of normal work or practice.
Darwin: Darwin may refer to: Charles Darwin (1809-1882), British naturalist and writer, best known as the originator of the theory of biological evolution by natural selection Darwin, Northern Territory, a capital city in Australia
Donegal fiddle tradition: The Donegal fiddle tradition is a type of Irish traditional music, based on a two-hundred year-old tradition (or possibly set of coexisting traditions) of playing the fiddle in County Donegal, Ireland. Donegal is a partly Irish-speaking highland-county in northwestern Ireland and one of the three counties of the northern Irish province of Ulster that are part of the Republic of Ireland.
Double-barreled shotgun: A double-barreled shotgun is a shotgun or Combination gun with two parallel barrels, allowing two shots to be fired in quick succession.
Disco: Disco is a genre of dance music whose popularity peaked during the middle to late 1970s. It had its roots in clubs that catered to African American, psychedelic and other communities in New York City and Philadelphia during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Disco was a reaction particularly among New York City's gays, heterosexuals, blacks and Latinos against both the domination of rock music and the demonetization of dance music by the counterculture during this period.
Dessert: Dessert is a course that typically comes at the end of a meal, usually consisting of sweet food but sometimes of a strongly-flavored one, such as some cheeses. The word comes from the French language as dessert and this from Old French desservir, "to clear the table" and "to serve. " Common desserts include cakes, cookies, fruits, pastries, ice cream, and candies. The word dessert is most commonly used for this course in U.S.
Dill: Dill (Anethum graveolens) is a short-lived perennial herb. It is the sole species of the genus Anethum, though classified by some botanists in a related genus as Peucedanum graveolens (L. ) C.B. Clarke.
Data Encryption Standard: The Data Encryption Standard (DES) is a block cipher that was selected by the National Bureau of Standards as an official Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) for the United States in 1976 and which has subsequently enjoyed widespread use internationally. It is based on a symmetric-key algorithm that uses a 56-bit key.
Dual space: In mathematics, any vector space, V, has a corresponding dual vector space (or just dual space for short) consisting of all linear functionals on V. Dual vector spaces defined on finite-dimensional vector spaces can be used for defining tensors which are studied in tensor algebra. When applied to vector spaces of functions (which typically are infinite-dimensional), dual spaces are employed for defining and studying concepts like measures, distributions, and Hilbert spaces.
Drink: A drink, or beverage, is a liquid which is specifically prepared for human consumption. In addition to filling a basic human need, beverages form part of the culture of human society.
Data warehouse: A data warehouse is a repository of an organization's electronically stored data. Data warehouses are designed to facilitate reporting and analysis . This definition of the data warehouse focuses on data storage. However, the means to retrieve and analyze data, to extract, transform and load data, and to manage the data dictionary are also considered essential components of a data warehousing system. Many references to data warehousing use this broader context.
Disperser: A disperser is a one-sided extractor. Where an extractor requires that every event gets the same probability under the uniform distribution and the extracted distribution, only the latter is required for a disperser. So for a disperser, an event we have: Definition (Disperser): A -disperser is a function such that for every distribution on with the support of the distribution is of size at least .
Dianetics: Dianetics (also spelled dianoetics) is a set of ideas and practices regarding the metaphysical relationship between the mind and body that were invented by the science fiction author L. Ron Hubbard and are practiced by followers of Scientology. Hubbard coined Dianetics from the Greek stems dia, meaning through, and nous, meaning mind. Dianetics explores the existence of a mind with three parts: the conscious "analytical mind," the subconscious "reactive mind," and the somatic mind.
David Thompson explorer: David Thompson (April 30, 1770 - February 10, 1857) born Dafydd ap Thomas, was an English-Canadian fur trader, surveyor, and map-maker, known to some native peoples as "Koo-Koo-Sint" or "the Stargazer". Over his career he mapped over 3.9 million square kilometers of North America and for this has been described as the "greatest land geographer who ever lived."
Default: Default may refer to: Default (law), the failure to do something required by law Default judgment Default (finance), failure to satisfy the terms of a loan obligation or to pay back a loan Default (computer science), a preset setting or value Default (band), a Canadian post-grunge and alternative rock band defaults (software), a command line utility for plist (preference) files Default logic, a non-monotonic logic proposed by Raymond Reiter
Dentistry: Dentistry is the known evaluation, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of diseases, disorders and conditions of the soft and hard tissues of the jaw, the oral cavity, maxillofacial area and the adjacent and associated structures and their impact on the human body. Dentistry is a part of stomatology. Dentistry is widely considered necessary for complete overall health. Those in the practice of dentistry are known as dentists.
Devonian: The Devonian is a geologic period and system of the Paleozoic Era spanning from 416 to 359.2 million years ago. It is named after Devon, England, where rocks from this period were first studied. During the Devonian Period the first fish evolved legs and started to walk on land as tetrapods around 397 Ma. Various terrestrial arthropods also became well-established. The first seed-bearing plants spread across dry land, forming huge forests.
Dioscoreales: Dioscoreales is a botanical name for an order of flowering plants. Of necessity it contains the family Dioscoreaceae. In the APG II system, of 2003, this order was placed in the clade monocots and comprised the families Burmanniaceae, Dioscoreaceae and Nartheciaceae.
Alcohol intoxication: Alcohol intoxication (also known as drunkenness or being drunk or inebriated) is a physiological state occurring when an organism has a high level of ethanol in its bloodstream, or when ethanol otherwise causes the physiological effect known as drunkenness. In humans, common symptoms may include slurred speech, impaired balance, poor coordination, flushed face, reddened eyes, reduced inhibition, and erratic behavior.
Diameter: In geometry, a diameter of a circle is any straight line segment that passes through the center of the circle and whose endpoints are on the circle. The diameters are the longest chords of the circle. The word "diameter" derives from Greek (diametros), "diagonal of a circle", from - (dia-), "across, through" + (metron), "a measure"). In more modern usage, the length of a diameter is also called the diameter.
Data compression: In computer science and information theory, data compression or source coding is the process of encoding information using fewer bits (or other information-bearing units) than an unencoded representation would use, through use of specific encoding schemes. As with any communication, compressed data communication only works when both the sender and receiver of the information understand the encoding scheme.
Demographics of the Democratic Republic of the Congo: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The population of the Democratic Republic of the Congo was estimated at 65.8 million in 2007. As many as 250 ethnic groups have been distinguished and named. The most numerous people are the Bakongo, Luba, and Mongo.
Politics of the Democratic Republic of the Congo: Wikisource has original text related to this article: The constitution of the Democratic Republic of the Congo Politics of the Democratic Republic of Congo take place in a framework of a republic in transition from a civil war to a semi-presidential democratic republic. On 18 and 19 December 2005, a successful nationwide referendum was carried out on a draft constitution which set the stage for elections in 2006.
Economy of the Democratic Republic of the Congo: Sparsely populated in relation to its area, the Democratic Republic of the Congo is home to a vast potential of natural resources and mineral wealth, yet the economy of the DRC has declined drastically since the mid-1980s. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for 57.9% of GDP in 1997. Main cash crops include coffee, palm oil, rubber, cotton, sugar, tea, and cocoa. Food crops include cassava, plantains, maize, groundnuts, and rice.
Geography of Denmark: Arable land: 60% Permanent crops: 0% Permanent pastures: 5% Forests and woodland: 10% Other: 25% (1993 est. ) Irrigated land: 4 350 km (1993 est.)
Transport in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: Ground transport in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has always been difficult. The terrain and climate of the Congo Basin present serious barriers to road and rail construction, and the distances are enormous across this vast country. Furthermore, chronic economic mismanagement and internal conflict has led to serious under-investment over many years.
Military of the Democratic Republic of the Congo: The Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of Congo is the state military organisation responsible for defending the Democratic Republic of Congo. The FARDC is being rebuilt as part of the peace process which followed the end of the Second Congo War in July 2003. The majority of FARDC members are land forces, but it also has a small air force and an even smaller navy. Together the three services may number around 130,000 personnel.
Demographics of Denmark: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Denmark, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The vast majority of the 5 million Danes today trace their heritage to the prehistoric Germanic populations.
Transport in Denmark: Transport in Denmark is developed and modern. The motorway network now covers 1,111 km while the railway network totals 2,667 km of operational track. Bridges across the Great Belt and the esund have done much to improve traffic flow across the country and between Denmark and Sweden. The airports of Copenhagen and Billund provide a variety of domestic and international connections while ferries provide services to Germany, Sweden, Norway and the UK as well as routes to the Danish islands.
Economy of Denmark: With very few natural resources, the mixed economy of Denmark relies almost entirely on human resources. The service sector makes up the vast amount of the employment and economy. Its industrialized market economy depends on imported raw materials and foreign trade. Within the European Union, Denmark advocates a liberal trade policy.
Direct examination: File:Scale of justice 2.
Danish Defence: The armed forces of the Kingdom of Denmark, known as the Danish Defence is charged with the defence of the Kingdom of Denmark. The Chief of Defence is the head of the Danish Armed Forces, and is head of the Defence Command which is managed by the Ministry of Defence. Constitutionally, the Commander-in-Chief is the head of state; in practice, it is the Cabinet.
Foreign relations of Denmark: Danish foreign policy is founded upon four cornerstones: the United Nations, NATO, the EU, and Nordic cooperation. Denmark also is a member of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund; the World Trade Organization (WTO); the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE); the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD); the Council of Europe; the Nordic Council; the Baltic Council; and the Barents Council.
History of Djibouti: The history of Djibouti, recorded in poetry and songs of its nomadic peoples, goes back thousands of years to a time when Djiboutians traded hides and skins for the perfumes and spices of ancient Egypt, India, and China. Through close contacts with the Arabian peninsula for more than one-thousand years, the Somali and Afar ethnic groups in this region became among the first on the African continent to adopt Islam. Djibouti was part of Ottoman Empire in Habesh province between 1555-1884.
Demographics of Djibouti: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Djibouti, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Over half of the Republic of Djibouti's inhabitants (totalling well over 700,000) reside in the capital city.
Economy of Djibouti: The Economy of Djbouti is derived in large part from its strategic location on the Red Sea. Djibouti is mostly barren, with little development in the agricultural and industrial sectors. The country has a harsh climate, a largely unskilled labour force, and limited natural resources. The countrys most important economic asset is its strategic location connecting the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden.
Geography of Djibouti: Djibouti is a country in Eastern Africa, bordering the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea, between Eritrea and Somalia. Its coordinates are 1130N 4300E; / ;11.5 43; / 11.5; 43.
Politics of Djibouti: Politics of Djibouti takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential republic. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The party system is dominated by the conservative People's Rally for Progress. The parliamentary party system is dominated by the People's Rally for Progress and the current President is Ismail Omar Guelleh. The country's current constitution was approved in September 1992.
Military of Djibouti: Djibouti's military consists of the Djibouti National Army (includes Navy and Air Force).
Foreign relations of Djibouti: Links with Arab states and East Asian states, Japan and People's Republic of China in particular, are welcome. Djibouti is greatly affected by events in Somalia and Ethiopia, and therefore relations are important and, at times, very delicate.
Geography of Dominica: Dominica is an island in the Caribbean Sea, located about halfway between Puerto Rico and Trinidad and Tobago. Its coordinates are 15 25 N, 61 20 W. The island is roughly four times the size of Washington, DC (in area, not population). The lowest point in the country is at sea level along the coast, and the highest is Morne Diablotins (1,447 m). The extreme southwestern coast of the island includes a large collapsed submarine caldera.
Demographics of Dominica: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Dominica, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Almost all Dominicans are descendants of African slaves brought in by colonial planters in the 18th century.
Politics of Dominica: Politics of Dominica takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Dominica is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the House of Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Transport in Dominica: Railways: There are no railways on Dominica Highways: There are a total of 780 km of highways and roads in Dominica, 393 km of which are paved, leaving 387 unpaved, according to a 1996 estimate. In Dominica, driving is on the left-hand side of the road. Some of the roads in more rural area are rough and unpaved, and require a four-wheel drive vehicles. Ports, harbours, and Merchant Marines: Dominica has three ports of entry: Portsmouth, Roseau, and Anse-de-Mai.
History of Dominica: The Arawaks were guided to Dominica, and other islands of the Caribbean, by the South Equatorial Current from the waters of the Orinoco River. These descendants of the early Tainos were overthrown by the Kalinago tribe of the Caribs. The Caribs, who settled here in the 14th century, called the island Waitikubuli, which means 'tall is her body'.
Military of Dominica: The military of Dominica consists of the Commonwealth of Dominica Police Force (includes Special Service Unit, Coast Guard). Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA%
Foreign relations of Dominica: Illicit drugs: transshipment point for narcotics bound for the US and Europe; minor cannabis producer. Disputes - international: claims Venezuelan controlled Isla Aves
Telecommunications in Dominica: File:Wiki letter w. svg Please help improve this article by expanding it. Further information might be found on the talk page.
History of the Dominican Republic: The Dominican Republic occupies the eastern two-thirds of the island of Hispaniola, in the Greater Antilles. Successive waves of Arawak migrants, moving northward from the Orinoco delta in South America, settled the islands of the Caribbean. Around A.D. 600, the Tano Indians, a late Stone Age Arawak culture, arrived on the island, displacing the previous inhabitants. They were organized into cacicazgos (chiefdoms), each led by a cacique (chief).
Deutsches Institut f r Normung: Deutsches Institut fr Normung e.V. (DIN; in English, the German Institute for Standardization) is the German national organization for standardization and is that country's ISO member body. DIN and mini-DIN connectors, as well as DIN rails are several examples of older DIN standards that are today used around the world. However, there are currently around thirty thousand DIN Standards, covering almost all fields of technology.
Demographics of the Dominican Republic: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Dominican Republic, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Geography of the Dominican Republic: The Dominican Republic is a country in the West Indies that occupies the eastern two-thirds of Hispaniola. It has an area of 48,442 km, including offshore islands. The land border between the Dominican Republic and Haiti, which occupies the western one-third of the island, is 388 km long. The maximum length, east to west, is 390 km from Punta de Agua to Las Lajas, on the border with Haiti. The maximum width, north to south, is 265 km from Cape Isabela to Cape Beata.
Dominican Republic: The Dominican Republic is a nation on the island of Hispaniola, part of the Greater Antilles archipelago in the Caribbean region. The western third of the island is occupied by the nation of Haiti, making Hispaniola one of two Caribbean islands that are occupied by two countries. Both by area and population, the Dominican Republic is the second largest Caribbean nation, with 48,442 square kilometres (18,704 sq mi) and an estimated 10 million people.
Economy of the Dominican Republic: The Dominican Republic, the biggest economy in the Caribbean and Central America is an upper middle-income developing country primarily dependent on agriculture, trade, and services, especially tourism.
Foreign relations of the Dominican Republic: The Dominican Republic has a close relationship with the United States and with the other states of the Inter-American system. It has accredited diplomatic missions in most Western Hemisphere countries and in principal European capitals.
Military of the Dominican Republic: The Military of the Dominican Republic or Fuerzas Armadas de la Repblica Dominicana consists of approximately 44,000 active duty personnel, about 40 percent of which are utilized for non-military operations, including security providers for government owned non-military facilities, toll security, prison guards, forestry workers and other state enterprises. The president is the commander in chief for the military.
Transport in the Dominican Republic: There are five main highways they are in good condition in the Dominican Republic connecting its biggest cities and tourist centers. There are nearly 12,600 km (7,829 mi) of highways and roads, 6,224 being paved and 6,376 km (3,962 mi) (1996 est. ) unpaved. Like any underdeveloped nation, the Dominican Republic suffers from lack of good paved roads to connect smaller towns and less populated areas, major town roads however are in good condition.
Disease: A disease or medical condition is an abnormal condition of an organism that impairs bodily functions, associated with specific symptoms and signs. It may be caused by external factors, such as infectious disease, or it may be caused by internal dysfunctions, such as autoimmune diseases. In holistic medicine and alternative medicine tradition, disease is said to be caused by energetic imbalances in physical, emotional, spiritual, social and/or environmental needs .
Datsun: Datsun was an automobile marque. The name was created in 1931 by the DAT Motorcar Co. for a new car model, spelling it as "Datson" to indicate its smaller size when compared to the existing, larger DAT car. Later, in 1933 after Nissan Motor Co. , Ltd. took control of DAT Motorcar Co. , the last syllable of Datson was changed to "sun", because "son" also means "loss" () in Japanese, and also to honour the sun depicted in the national flag, hence the name "Datsun": Dattosan ..
Dynamite: Dynamite is an explosive material based on the explosive potential of nitroglycerin, initially using diatomaceous earth or another absorbent substance such as sawdust as an absorbent. It was invented by Swedish chemist and engineer Alfred Nobel in Krmmel, and patented in 1867. It is usually sold in the form of a stick 20 centimetres (roughly 8 inches) long and 2.5 centimetres (1 inch) in diameter, with a weight of about 1/4 kg (roughly 1/2 lbs). Other sizes also exist.
David Fincher: David Leo Fincher (born August 28, 1962) is an American filmmaker and music video director, known for his dark and stylish thriller movies, such as Se7en (1995), The Game (1997), Fight Club (1999), and Zodiac (2007). He received an Academy Award nomination for Best Director for his 2008 film The Curious Case of Benjamin Button.
Dardanelles: The Dardanelles, formerly known as the Hellespont, is a narrow strait in northwestern Turkey connecting the Aegean Sea to the Sea of Marmara. It is one of the Turkish Straits, along with its counterpart the Bosporus. It is located at approximately 4013N 2626E; / ;40.217 26.433; / 40.217; 26.433. The strait is 61 kilometres (38 mi) long but only 1.2 to 6 kilometres (0.75 to 4 mi) wide, averaging 55 metres (180 ft) deep with a maximum depth of 82 metres (300 ft).
Daugava River: The river Daugava or Western Dvina or Dzvina, not to be confused with Northern Dvina, is a river rising in the Valdai Hills, Russia, flowing through Russia, Belarus, and Latvia, draining into the Gulf of Riga in Latvia, an arm of the Baltic Sea. The total length of the river is 1,020 km (630 mi). It is connected by a canal to the Berezina and Dnieper rivers. The Daugava forms part of the international border between Latvia and Belarus.
List of decades: This is a list of decades from the 17th century BC to the present century, including links to corresponding articles with more information about them. During the twentieth century, it became common to consider individual decades as historical entities in themselves. Particular trends, styles, and attitudes would be associated with and regarded as defining particular decades (which became known as "the twenties", "the sixties" and so on).
Douglas Engelbart: Dr. Douglas C. Engelbart (born January 30, 1925) is an American inventor and early computer pioneer. He is best known for inventing the computer mouse, as a pioneer of human-computer interaction whose team developed hypertext, networked computers, and precursors to GUIs; and as a committed and vocal proponent of the development and use of computers and networks to help cope with the worlds increasingly urgent and complex problems.
Dr. Dre: Andre Romelle Young (born February 18, 1965), primarily known by his stage name Dr. Dre, is an American record producer, rapper, record executive, and actor. He is the founder and current CEO of Aftermath Entertainment and a former co-owner and artist of Death Row Records, also having produced albums for and overseeing the careers of many rappers signed to those record labels, such as Snoop Dogg, Eminem and 50 Cent.
Deed poll: A deed poll is a legal document binding only to a single person or several persons acting jointly to express an active intention. It is, strictly speaking, not a contract because it binds only one party and expresses an intention instead of a promise. The most common use is a name change through a deed of change of name (often simply referred to as a deed poll). A similar document to a deed poll is a Master Title Deed, used mainly for recording a change of title, eg from Mrs to Dr etc.
Delicate Arch: Delicate Arch is a 52 ft (16 m) tall freestanding natural arch located in Arches National Park near Moab, Utah. It is the most widely-recognized landmark in Arches National Park and is depicted on Utah license plates and on a postage stamp commemorating Utah's centennial anniversary of statehood in 1996. The Olympic torch relay for the 2002 Winter Olympics passed through the arch.
Documentary film: Documentary film is a broad category of visual expressions that is based on the attempt, in one fashion or another, to "document" reality. Although "documentary film" originally referred to movies shot on film stock, it has subsequently expanded to include video and digital productions that can be either direct-to-video or made for a television series.
Diamond: In mineralogy, diamond (from the ancient Greek - adas "unbreakable") is an allotrope of carbon, where the carbon atoms are arranged in a variation of the face-centered cubic crystal structure called a diamond lattice. Diamond is less stable than graphite, but the conversion rate from diamond to graphite is negligible at ambient conditions. Diamond is renowned as a material with superlative physical qualities, most of which originate from the strong covalent bonding between its atoms.
Drama film: A drama film is a film genre that depends mostly on in-depth development of realistic characters dealing with emotional themes. Dramatic themes such as alcoholism, drug addiction, racial prejudice, religious intolerance, poverty, crime and corruption put the characters in conflict with themselves, others, society and even natural phenomena. This film genre can be contrasted with an action film, which relies on fast-paced action and physical conflict but superficial character development.
Douglas Adams: Douglas Nol Adams (11 March 1952 - 11 May 2001) was an English writer, dramatist, and musician. He is best known as the author of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, which started life in 1978 as a BBC radio comedy before developing into a "trilogy" of five books that sold over 15 million copies in his lifetime, a television series, several stage plays, comics, a computer game, and in 2005 a feature film.
Dairy product: Dairy products are generally defined as foods produced from cow's or domestic buffalo's milk. They are usually high-energy-yielding food products. A production plant for such processing is called a dairy or a dairy factory. Raw milk for processing mostly comes from cows and to a lesser amount from domestic buffalos, but occasionally from other mammals such as goats, sheep, yaks, or horses.
Drum and bass: Drum and bass (commonly abbreviated to D&B or DnB) is a type of electronic dance music which emerged in the mid 1990s. The genre is characterized by fast breakbeats (typically between 160-190 bpm, occasional variation is noted in older compositions), with heavy bass, sub-bass lines, and occasional infra-bass lines. Drum and bass began as an offshoot of the United Kingdom rave scene of the very early 1990s.
Dave Grohl: David Eric "Dave" Grohl (born January 14, 1969) is an American rock musician, multi-instrumentalist, singer and songwriter. Grohl began his music career in the 1980s as the drummer for several Washington, D.C. -area bands, including the hardcore punk band Scream. In 1990 he became the drummer for grunge group Nirvana. Following the death of Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain in April 1994, Grohl formed Foo Fighters as frontman and songwriter.
Dollar: The dollar is the name of the official currency in several nation states, including Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the Eastern Caribbean territories, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Brunei, East Timor, Ecuador, El Salvador, Panama, Belize, and the United States.
Dutch: Dutch usually refers to: Dutch people, people from the Netherlands or their descendants Dutch language, spoken in the Netherlands, Belgium, Suriname, Curao, Aruba, and the Netherlands Antilles It may also refer to: Personal nicknames Ronald Reagan, 40th President of the United States Dutch Schultz, notorious gangster Dutch Ruppersberger, U.S.
Donald Knuth: Donald Ervin Knuth (born January 10, 1938) is a renowned computer scientist and Professor Emeritus of the Art of Computer Programming at Stanford University.
Dysprosium: Dysprosium is a chemical element with the symbol Dy and atomic number 66. It is a rare earth element with a metallic silver luster. Dysprosium is never found in nature as a free element, though it is found in various minerals, such as xenotime. Naturally occurring dysprosium is composed of 7 isotopes, the most abundant of which is Dy.
Deforestation: Deforestation is the clearance of naturally occurring forests by logging and burning. Deforestation occurs for many reasons: trees or derived charcoal are used as, or sold, for fuel or as a commodity, while cleared land is used as pasture for livestock, plantations of commodities, and settlements. The removal of trees without sufficient reforestation has resulted in damage to habitat, biodiversity loss and aridity. It has adverse impacts on biosequestration of atmospheric carbon dioxide.
Desertification: Desertification is the extreme deterioration of land in arid and dry sub-humid areas due to loss of vegetation and soil moisture; desertification results chiefly from man-made activities and influenced by climatic variations. It is principally caused by overgrazing, overdrafting of groundwater and diversion of water from rivers for human consumption and industrial use, all of these processes fundamentally driven by overpopulation.
Dock: Dock may refer to:
Dumbarton Bridge California: The Dumbarton Bridge is the southernmost of the highway bridges that span the San Francisco Bay in California. Carrying over 81,000 vehicles daily, it is also the shortest bridge across San Francisco Bay at 1.63 miles (8,600 feet / 2,622 m). Its eastern terminus is in Fremont, near Newark in the San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge, and its western terminus is in Menlo Park.
Dallas Cowboys: The Dallas Cowboys are an American football team that plays in the Eastern Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). They are headquartered in Valley Ranch in suburban Irving, Texas, which lies between Fort Worth and Dallas. The team plays its home games at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas, which finished construction in time for the 2009 season. The Cowboys joined the NFL as a 1960 expansion team.
Denver Broncos: The Denver Broncos are a professional American football team based in Denver, Colorado. They are currently a member of the American Football Conference (AFC) Western Division in the National Football League (NFL). The Broncos began play in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League and joined the NFL as part of the AFL-NFL merger. They play at Invesco Field at Mile High.
D: D is the fourth letter in the Latin alphabet. Its name in English is spelled dee, plural dees.
Digamma: Digamma (uppercase , lowercase ) is an archaic letter of the Greek alphabet, used primarily as a Greek numeral. The letter had the phonetic value of a voiced labial-velar approximant /w/. It was originally called wau. It was later called the "elusive" (digamma "double gamma") because of its shape. It is attested in archaic and dialectal ancient Greek inscriptions, and is occasionally used as a symbol in later Greek mathematical texts.
Delta letter: Delta (Dhelta) is the fourth letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals it has a value of 4. It was derived from the Phoenician letter Dalet. In the Ancient Greek language, it represented a voiced dental plosive /d/, while in Modern Greek it represents a voiced dental fricative //, hence it is pronounced as "th" in "that" or "this".
Dose: Dose means quantity in the following fields: In nutrition, medicine, and toxicology: Dose (biochemistry), the quantity of something that may be eaten by or administered to an organism, or that an organism may be exposed to. Quantities of nutrients, drugs, and toxins are referred to as doses.
Dilbert: Dilbert (first published April 16, 1989) is an American comic strip written and drawn by Scott Adams. Dilbert is known for its satirical office humor about a white-collar, micromanaged office featuring the engineer Dilbert as the title character. The strip has spawned several books, an animated television series, a computer game, and hundreds of Dilbert-themed merchandise items.
Dialect: The term dialect (from the Greek Language word dialektos, ) is used in two distinct ways, even by linguists. One usage refers to a variety of a language that is characteristic of a particular group of the language's speakers. The term is applied most often to regional speech patterns, but a dialect may also be defined by other factors, such as social class.
Digitalis: Digitalis is a genus of about 20 species of herbaceous perennials, shrubs, and biennials that are commonly called foxgloves. The genus was traditionally placed in the figwort family Scrophulariaceae, but upon review of phylogenetic research, it has now been placed in the much enlarged family Plantaginaceae. The genus is native to Europe, western and central Asia, and northwestern Africa.
Dualism: Dualism denotes a state of two parts. The word's origin is the Latin duo, "two" . The term 'dualism' was originally coined to denote co-eternal binary opposition, a meaning that is preserved in metaphysical and philosophical duality discourse but has been diluted in general or common usages.
Dalai Lama: The Dalai Lama is a lineage of religious officials of the Gelug sect of Tibetan Buddhism. The name is a combination of the Mongolian word "Dalai" meaning "Ocean" and the Tibetan word "Blama" (with a silent b) meaning "chief" or "high priest. " "Lama" is a general term referring to Tibetan Buddhist teachers. In religious terms, the Dalai Lama is believed by his devotees to be the rebirth of a long line of tulkus who descend from the bodhisattva Avalokitevara.
Dendrite: Dendrites (from Greek ddron, tree) are the branched projections of a neuron that act to conduct the electrochemical stimulation received from other neural cells to the cell body, or soma, of the neuron from which the dendrites project. Electrical stimulation is transmitted onto dendrites by upstream neurons via synapses which are located at various points throughout the dendritic arbor.
Damages: In law, damages is an award of money to be paid to, a person as compensation for loss or injury Black's Law Dictionary.
Disaster: A disaster is the tragedy of a natural or human-made hazard (a hazard is a situation which poses a level of threat to life, health, property, or environment) that negatively affects society or environment. In contemporary academia, disasters are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk. These risks are the product of hazards and vulnerability. Hazards that strike in areas with low vulnerability are not considered a disaster, as is the case in uninhabited regions.
Dipsacales: The Dipsacales are an order of flowering plants, included within the asterid group of dicotyledons. Under the Cronquist system, the order included Adoxaceae, Caprifoliaceae, Dipsacaceae, and Valerianaceae. Under the more recent Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (APG II) system, the circumscription of the order is much the same but the families are circumscribed differently.
Dino Zoff: Dino Zoff (born February 28, 1942 in Mariano del Friuli) is an Italian former football goalkeeper and is the oldest winner ever of the World Cup, which he earned as captain of the Italian team in the 1982 tournament in Spain, at the age of 40. Zoff was a goalkeeper of outstanding ability and has a place in the history of the sport among the very best in this role, being named the 3rd greatest goalkeeper of the 20th century by the IFFHS behind Lev Yashin and Gordon Banks.
Democrat: Democrat may refer to: A proponent of democracy, rule of the people or rule by many A member of a Democratic Party; including Democratic Party (United States) Democratic Party of Japan List of Democratic Parties
Drinking game: Drinking games are games which involve the drinking of alcoholic beverages. These games vary widely in scope and complexity, although the purpose of most is to become intoxicated as quickly as possible. Evidence of the existence of drinking games dates back to antiquity. The rapid consumption of alcohol, key to many drinking games, worsens judgement and decreases inhibition, and may lead to alcohol poisoning. As a result, drinking games have been banned at some American universities.
December: December is the twelfth and last month of the year in the Gregorian Calendar and one of seven Gregorian months with the length of 31 days. December's flower is the narcissus or holly. December's birthstones are turquoise, lapis lazuli, zircon, topaz (blue), or tanzanite. In Latin, decem means "ten". December was also the tenth month in the Roman calendar until a monthless winter period was divided between January and February.
Diogo C o: Diogo C was a Portuguese explorer and one of the most remarkable navigators of the Age of Discovery, who made two voyages sailing along the west coast of Africa in the 1480s. He is well known in Angola, because of him the country was a Portuguese colony & has close ties with Portugal . He was born in Vila Real (some say in ora), at the middle of the 15th century, ca.
Devon: Devon is a large county in South West England. The county is also referred to as Devonshire, although that is an unofficial name, rarely used inside the county itself and often indicating a traditional or historical context. The county shares borders with Cornwall to the west and Dorset and Somerset to the east. Its south coast abuts the English Channel and its north coast the Bristol Channel. Devon is the third largest of the English counties and has a population of 1,109,900.
Dante Alighieri: Dante Alighieri (May/June c.1265 - September 14, 1321), commonly known as Dante, was an Italian poet of the Middle Ages. The name Dante is, according to the words of Jacopo Alighieri, a hypocorism for Durante. In contemporary documents it is followed by the patronymic Alagherii or de Alagheriis; it was Boccaccio who popularized the form Alighieri.
Dennis the Menace: Dennis the Menace may refer to: Dennis the Menace (UK), a British comic strip in "The Beano" since 1951 Dennis the Menace Annual, a book featuring the British character, published yearly since 1955 Dennis the Menace (1996 TV series), an animated television series based on the Beano comic strip, known internationally as Dennis and Gnasher Dennis & Gnasher (2009 TV series), the latest series based on the Beano comic, released on September 7, 2009 Dennis the Menace (U.S.
Dennis the Menace UK: Dennis the Menace (known as Dennis the Menace and Gnasher since 1970) is a long-running comic strip featured in The Beano children's comic, published by D. C. Thomson & Co. , Dundee, Scotland, in the United Kingdom. The strip first appeared in issue 452, released on 15 March 1951 (cover dated for the off-sale date of 17 March), and is the longest running strip in the comic.
Examples of differential equations: Differential equations arise in many problems in physics, engineering, etc. The following examples show how to solve differential equations in a few simple cases when an exact solution exists.
Dye: A dye can generally be described as a colored substance that has an affinity to the to which it is being applied. The dye is generally applied in an aqueous solution, and may require a mordant to improve the fastness of the dye on the fiber. Both dyes and pigments appear to be colored because they absorb some wavelengths of light preferentially. In contrast with a dye, a pigment generally is insoluble, and has no affinity for the substrate.
Dave Brubeck: David Warren "Dave" Brubeck (born December 6, 1920) is an American jazz pianist. He has written a number of jazz standards, including "In Your Own Sweet Way" and "The Duke". Brubeck's style ranges from refined to bombastic, reflecting his mother's attempts at classical training and his improvisational skills. His music is known for employing unusual time signatures, and superimposing contrasting rhythms, meters, and tonalities.
Dartmoor: Dartmoor is an area of moorland in the centre of Devon, England. Protected by National Park status, it covers 954 square kilometres (368 sq mi). The granite upland dates from the Carboniferous period of geological history. The moorland is capped with many exposed granite hilltops, providing habitats for Dartmoor wildlife. The highest point is High Willhays, 621 m (2,037 ft) above sea level. The entire area is rich in antiquities and archaeology.
Descriptive statistics: Descriptive statistics are used to describe the main features of a collection of data in quantitative terms. Descriptive statistics are distinguished from inferential statistics, in that descriptive statistics aim to quantitatively summarize a data set, rather than being used to support inferential statements about the population that the data are thought to represent.
Demographic statistics: Among the kinds of data that national leaders need are the demographic statistics of their population. Records of births, deaths, marriages, immigration and emigration and a regular census of population provide information that is key to making sound decisions about national policy. A useful summary of such data is the population pyramid. It provides data about the sex and age distribution of the population in an accessible graphical format. Another summary is called the life table.
Dwight D. Eisenhower: Dwight David "Ike" Eisenhower (October 14, 1890 - March 28, 1969) was a five-star general in the United States Army and the 34th President of the United States, from 1953 until 1961. During the Second World War, he served as Supreme Commander of the Allied forces in Europe, with responsibility for planning and supervising the successful invasion of France and Germany in 1944-45. In 1951, he became the first supreme commander of NATO.
Detective fiction: Detective fiction is a branch of crime fiction in which a detective (or detectives), either professional or amateur, investigates a crime, often murder.
Daniel Defoe: Daniel Defoe (c. 1659 - 24 April 1731), born Daniel Foe, was an English writer, journalist, and pamphleteer, who gained enduring fame for his novel Robinson Crusoe. Defoe is notable for being one of the earliest proponents of the novel, as he helped to popularise the form in Britain, and is even referred to by some as among the founders of the English novel.
Dejima: Dejima, was a fan-shaped artificial island in the bay of Nagasaki that was a Dutch trading post during Japan's self-imposed isolation of the Edo period, from 1641 until 1853.
Desmond Morris: Desmond John Morris is a British zoologist and ethologist, but is also known as a surrealist painter and popular author.
Denis Diderot: Denis Diderot (October 5, 1713 - July 31, 1784) was a French philosopher, art critic, and writer. He was a prominent figure during the Enlightenment and is best known for serving as chief editor of and contributor to the creation of the Encyclopie.
Diatonic scale: In music theory, a diatonic scale (from the Greek , meaning " through tones", also known as the heptatonia prima and set form 7-35) is a seven note musical scale comprising five whole steps and two half steps, in which the half steps are maximally separated. Thus between each of the two half steps lie either two or three whole steps, with the pattern repeating at the octave. The term diatonic originally referred to the diatonic genus, one of the three genera of the ancient Greeks.
December 31: It is the last day of the Gregorian year. The day following is January 1 of the next year.
Deutschlandlied: Das Deutschlandlied (also known as "Das Lied der Deutschen" or "The Song of the Germans"), has been used wholly or partially as the national anthem of Germany since 1922. The music was written by Joseph Haydn in 1797 as an anthem for the birthday of the Austrian Emperor Francis II of the Holy Roman Empire.
Timeline of chemical elements discoveries: The discovery of the elements known to exist today is presented here in chronological order. The elements are listed generally in the order in which each was first defined as the pure element, as the exact date of discovery of most elements cannot be accurately defined. There are no written records for the discoveries of the first few elements that were known in antiquity.
Dartmoor HM Prison: HM Prison Dartmoor is a Category C men's prison, located in Princetown, high on Dartmoor in the English county of Devon. Its high granite walls dominate this area of the moor. It is easily distinguished at night by its bright red light. The prison is owned by the Duchy of Cornwall, and is operated by Her Majesty's Prison Service.
Dilation and curettage: Dilation (or dilatation) and curettage (D&C) refers to the dilation (widening/opening) of the cervix and surgical removal of part of the lining of the uterus and/or contents of the uterus by scraping and scooping. It is a therapeutic gynecological procedure as well as a rarely used method of first trimester abortion.
Doctor Who: Doctor Who is a British science fiction television programme produced by the BBC. The programme depicts the adventures of a mysterious, humanoid alien known as the Doctor who travels through time and space in his spacecraft, the TARDIS (an acronym for Time And Relative Dimensions In Space), which normally appears from the exterior to be a blue 1950s police box. With his companions, he explores time and space, faces a variety of foes and rights wrongs.
Democritus: Democritus was an Ancient Greek philosopher born in Abdera, Thrace, Greece. He was an influential pre-Socratic philosopher and pupil of Leucippus, who formulated an atomic theory for the cosmos. Democritus was also known for being the first person for putting his ideas about atoms. His exact contributions are difficult to disentangle from his mentor Leucippus, as they are often mentioned together in texts.
Disc golf: Disc golf is a disc game in which individual players throw a flying disc into a basket or at a target. According to the Professional Disc Golf Association, "The object of the game is to traverse a course from beginning to end in the fewest number of throws of the disc. " Disc golf is inexpensive and is physically accessible for all ages and athletic ranges and therefore attracts a diverse range of players. A great majority of established disc golf courses are free.
Decimal: The decimal numeral system (also called base ten or occasionally denary) has ten as its base. It is the numerical base most widely used by modern civilizations. Decimal notation often refers to the base-10 positional notation such as the Hindu-Arabic numeral system, however it can also be used more generally to refer to non-positional systems such as Roman or Chinese numerals which are still based on powers of ten.
Deng Xiaoping: Deng Xiaoping listen was a Chinese politician, statesman, theorist, and diplomat. As leader of the Communist Party of China, Deng became a reformer who led China towards a market economy. While Deng never held office as the head of state or the head of government, he nonetheless served as the Paramount leader of the People's Republic of China from 1978 to the early 1990s.
Dennis Ritchie: Dennis MacAlistair Ritchie is an American computer scientist notable for his influence on C and other programming languages, and on operating systems such as Multics and Unix. He received the Turing Award in 1983 and the National Medal of Technology in 1998. Ritchie was the head of Lucent Technologies System Software Research Department when he retired in 2007.
Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen: The Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen is a fundamental document of the French Revolution, defining the individual and collective rights of all the estates of the realm as universal. Influenced by the doctrine of natural rights, the rights of Man are universal: valid at all times and in every place, pertaining to human nature itself.
Dorians: The Dorians were one of the four major tribes into which the Ancient Greeks of the Classical period divided themselves. The Dorians are almost always simply referenced as just "the Dorians", as they are in the earliest literary mention of them in Odyssey, where they already can be found inhabiting the island of Crete. Herodotus does use the word ethnos with regard to them, from which the English word ethnic derives, which appears in the modern concept of ethnic group.
Doctrine and Covenants: The Doctrine and Covenants (sometimes abbreviated and cited as D&C) is a part of the open scriptural canon of several denominations of the Latter Day Saint movement.
Deseret alphabet: The Deseret alphabet ( or ) is a sound-based alphabet developed in the mid-19th century by the board of regents of the University of Deseret under the direction of Brigham Young, second president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In public statements, Young claimed the alphabet was intended to replace the traditional Latin alphabet with an alternative, more phonetically accurate alphabet for the English language.
Danish: Danish may refer to: Something of, from, or related to the country of Denmark A national or citizen of Denmark, also called a "Dane". For information about the people of Denmark, see Demographics of Denmark and Culture of Denmark. Danish people, also called "Danes" - people with a Danish ancestral or ethnic identity. For specific persons, see List of Danes. The Danish language, a North Germanic language used mostly in Denmark and Northern Germany. See also Languages of Denmark.
Death: Death is the termination of the biological functions that define a living organism. It will eventually afflict all living things. Death refers both to a particular event and to the condition that results thereby. The true nature of the latter has, for millennia, been a central concern of the world's religious traditions and of philosophical enquiry. Belief in some kind of afterlife or rebirth is a central aspect of many religious traditions.
Decade Neil Young album: Decade is a triple album compilation by Neil Young, released in 1977, now available on two compact discs. It contains 35 of Young's songs recorded between 1966 and 1976, among them five tracks that had been unreleased up to that point. It peaked at #43 on the Billboard Top Pop Albums chart.
Death metal: Death metal is an extreme subgenre of heavy metal. It typically employs heavily distorted guitars, deep growling vocals, blast beat drumming, and complex song structures with multiple tempo changes. Building from the musical structure of thrash metal, death metal emerged during the mid 1980s. It was mainly inspired by thrash metal acts like Slayer, Kreator and Celtic Frost.
Demeter: In Greek mythology Demeter was the goddess who presided over grains, the fertility of the earth, the seasons (personified by the Hours), and the harvest. Though Demeter is often described simply as the goddess of the harvest, she presided also over the sanctity of marriage, the sacred law, and the cycle of life and death. She and her daughter Persephone were the central figures of the Eleusinian Mysteries that also predated the Olympian pantheon. Her Roman cognate is Ceres.
Danish language: Danish is one of the North Germanic languages (also called Scandinavian languages), a sub-group of the Germanic branch of the Indo-European languages. It is spoken by around 6 million people, mainly in Denmark; the language is also used by the 50,000 Danes in the northern parts of Schleswig-Holstein in Germany where it holds the status of minority language.
Dada: Dada or Dadaism is a cultural movement that began in Zrich, Switzerland, during World War I and peaked from 1916 to 1922. The movement primarily involved visual arts, literaturepoetry, art manifestoes, art theorytheatre, and graphic design, and concentrated its anti-war politics through a rejection of the prevailing standards in art through anti-art cultural works. Its purpose was to ridicule what its participants considered to be the meaninglessness of the modern world.
Debian: Debian is a computer operating system composed of software packages released as free and open source software especially under the GNU General Public License and other free software licenses. The primary form, Debian GNU/Linux, which uses the Linux kernel and GNU OS tools, is a popular and influential GNU/Linux distribution. It is distributed with access to repositories containing thousands of software packages ready for installation and use.
Doonesbury: Doonesbury is a comic strip by Garry Trudeau that chronicles the adventures and lives of an array of characters of various ages, professions, and backgrounds, from the President of the United States to the title character, Michael Doonesbury, now a middle-aged, remarried father. Frequently political in nature, Doonesbury features characters professing a range of affiliations, but the cartoon is noted for a liberal outlook.
Don Quixote: Don Quixote, fully titled The Ingenious Hidalgo Don Quixote of La Mancha, is a novel written by Spanish author Miguel de Cervantes. Cervantes created a fictional origin for the story by creating a fictional Moorish chronicler for Don Quixote named Cide Hamete Benengeli. Published in two volumes a decade apart (in 1605 and 1615), Don Quixote is the most influential work of literature to emerge from the Spanish Golden Age and the entire Spanish literary canon.
Dice: A die or dice (plural dice, from Old French d, from Latin datum "something given or played") is a small polyhedral object, usually cubic, used for generating random numbers or other symbols. This makes dice suitable as gambling devices, especially for craps or sic bo, or for use in non-gambling tabletop games. A traditional die is a cube (often with corners slightly rounded), marked on each of its six faces with a different number of circular patches or pits called pips.
Dumpster diving: Dumpster diving (known as skipping in the UK) is the practice of sifting through commercial or residential trash to find items that have been discarded by their owners, but which may be useful to the dumpster diver.
Definition of music: How to define music has long been the subject of debate; philosophers, musicians, and, more recently, various social and natural scientists have argued about what constitutes music. The definition has varied through history, in different regions, and within societies. Definitions vary as music, like art, is a subjectively perceived phenomenon.
Digital synthesizer: A digital synthesizer is a synthesizer that uses digital signal processing (DSP) techniques to make musical sounds. Electronic keyboards make music through sound waves. The very earliest digital synthesis experiments were made with general-purpose computers, as part of academic research into sound generation.
Doom: Doom may refer to: dm, the Anglo-Saxon word meaning "judgment", "law" Doom book the Laws of King Aelfred, Legal Code of Alfred the Great, Code of Alfred 893 Doom (painting), a painting that depicts the Last Judgment
Diode: In electronics, a diode is a two-terminal electronic component that conducts electric current in only one direction. The term usually refers to a semiconductor diode, the most common type today, which is a crystal of semiconductor connected to two electrical terminals, a P-N junction. A vacuum tube diode, now little used, is a vacuum tube with two electrodes; a plate and a cathode.
Dayton Ohio: Dayton is a city in and the county seat of Montgomery County, Ohio, United States, in the southwestern part of the state. The population was 166,179 at the 2000 census. The Dayton Metropolitan Statistical Area had a population of 848,153 in the 2000 census. Dayton is the fourth largest metropolitan area in Ohio and the 61st largest Metropolitan Area in the United States. The Dayton-Springfield-Greenville Combined Statistical Area had a population of 1,085,094 in 2000.
Drexel University: Drexel University is a private coeducational university located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. It was founded in 1891 by Anthony J. Drexel, a noted financier and philanthropist.
Dominoes: Dominoes (or dominos) generally refers to the collective gaming pieces making up a domino set (sometimes called a deck or pack) or to the subcategory of tile games played with domino pieces. In the area of mathematical tilings and polyominoes, the word domino often refers to any rectangle formed from joining two congruent squares edge to edge. The traditional Sino-European domino set consists of 28 dominoes, colloquially nicknamed bones, cards, tiles, tickets, stones, or spinners.
Daedalus: In Greek mythology, Daedalus (Latin, also Hellenized Latin Daedalos, Greek Daidalos meaning "cunning worker", and Etruscan Taitle) was a skilful craftsman and artisan. Daedalus had two sons: Icarus and Iapyx, along with a nephew, whose name varies. He is first mentioned by Homer as the creator of a wide dancing-ground for Ariadne. The Labyrinth on Crete, in which the Minotaur (part man, part bull) was kept, was also created by the artificer Daedalus.
Deception Pass: Deception Pass is a strait separating Whidbey Island from Fidalgo Island, in the northwest part of the U.S. state of Washington. It connects Skagit Bay, part of Puget Sound, with the Strait of Juan de Fuca.
Dissociation constant: In chemistry, biochemistry, and pharmacology, a dissociation constant is a specific type of equilibrium constant that measures the propensity of a larger object to separate (dissociate) reversibly into smaller components, as when a complex falls apart into its component molecules, or when a salt splits up into its component ions. The dissociation constant is usually denoted and is the inverse of the association constant.
Digital television: Digital television (DTV) is the sending and receiving of moving images and sound by discrete signals, in contrast to the analog signals used by analog TV.
Dimensional analysis: In mathematics and science, dimensional analysis is a tool to understand the properties of physical quantities independent of the units used to measure them. Every physical quantity is some combination of mass, length, time, electric charge, and temperature, (denoted M, L, T, Q, and , respectively). For example, velocity, which may be measured in meters per second (m/s), miles per hour (mi/h), or some other units, has dimension expresses as L/T or alternatively LT.
Digital: A digital system is a data technology that uses discrete (discontinuous) values. By contrast, non-digital systems use a continuous range of values to represent information. Although digital representations are discrete, the information represented can be either discrete, such as numbers, letters or icons, or continuous, such as sounds, images, and other measurements of continuous systems.
Declaration of Arbroath: The Declaration of Arbroath was a declaration of Scottish independence, and set out to confirm Scotland's status as an independent, sovereign state and its use of military action when unjustly attacked. It is in the form of a letter submitted to Pope John XXII, dated 6 April 1320. Sealed by fifty-one magnates and nobles, the letter is the sole survivor of three created at the time.
Deduction: Deduction may refer to: in logic: Deductive reasoning, inference in which the conclusion is of no greater generality than the premises Natural deduction, an approach to proof theory that attempts to provide a formal model of logical reasoning as it "naturally" occurs in taxation: Tax deduction, variable amounts that you can subtract, or deduct, from your gross income.
Domino effect: The domino effect is a chain reaction that occurs when a small change causes a similar change nearby, which then will cause another similar change, and so on in linear sequence. The term is best known as a mechanical effect, and is used as an analogy to a falling row of dominoes. It typically refers to a linked sequence of events where the time between successive events is relatively small.
Declarative memory: Declarative memory is the aspect of human memory that stores facts. It is so called because it refers to memories that can be consciously discussed, or declared. It applies to standard textbook learning and knowledge, as well as memories that can be 'travelled back to' in one's 'mind's eye'. It is contrasted with procedural memory, which applies to skills (e.g. learning how to use a computer).
Demon: In religion and mythology, occultism and folklore, a demon (or daemon, daimon; from Greek daim) is a supernatural being that is generally described as a malevolent spirit. However, the original meaning of the word daemon does not carry any negative connotations, which were later projected onto it as Christianity spread.
Diffusion pump: Diffusion pumps use a high speed jet of vapor to direct gas molecules in the pump throat down into the bottom of the pump and out the exhaust. Presented in 1915 by Wolfgang Gaede and using mercury vapor, they were the first type of high vacuum pumps operating in the regime of free molecular flow, where the movement of the gas molecules can be better understood as diffusion than by conventional fluid dynamics.
Doris Day: Doris Day (born Doris Mary Ann Kappelhoff; April 3, 1922) is an American actress, singer, and animal rights activist. Day's entertainment career began in her late teens as a big band singer. In 1945 she had her first hit recording, "Sentimental Journey", and, in 1948, appeared in her first film, Romance on the High Seas.
Domenico Alberti: Domenico Alberti (c. 1710 - 1740) was an Italian singer, harpsichordist, and composer whose works bridge the Baroque and Classical periods. Alberti was born in Venice and studied music with Antonio Lotti. He wrote operas, songs, and sonatas for keyboard instruments, for which he is best known today. These sonatas frequently employ a particular kind of arpeggiated accompaniment in the left hand that is now known as the Alberti bass.
Distillation: Distillation is a method of separating mixtures based on differences in their volatilities in a boiling liquid mixture. Distillation is a unit operation, or a physical separation process, and not a chemical reaction. Commercially, distillation has a number of applications. It is used to separate crude oil into more fractions for specific uses such as transport, power generation and heating. Water is distilled to remove impurities, such as salt from seawater.
David Hilbert: David Hilbert (January 23, 1862 - February 14, 1943) was a German mathematician, recognized as one of the most influential and universal mathematicians of the 19th and early 20th centuries. He discovered and developed a broad range of fundamental ideas in many areas, including invariant theory and the axiomatization of geometry. He also formulated the theory of Hilbert spaces, one of the foundations of functional analysis.
Dyslexia: Dyslexia is a learning disorder that manifests itself as a difficulty with reading, spelling and in some cases mathematics. It is separate and distinct from reading difficulties resulting from other causes, such as a non-neurological deficiency with vision or hearing, or from poor or inadequate . It is estimated that dyslexia affects between 5% and 17% of the U.S. population.
Down syndrome: Down syndrome, or Down's syndrome (primarily in the United Kingdom), trisomy 21, or trisomy G, is a chromosomal disorder caused by the presence of all or part of an extra 21st chromosome. It is named after John Langdon Down, the British physician who described the syndrome in 1866. The disorder was identified as a chromosome 21 trisomy by Je Lejeune in 1959. The condition is characterized by a combination of major and minor differences in structure.
Ordinary differential equation: In mathematics, an ordinary differential equation (or ODE) is a relation that contains functions of only one independent variable, and one or more of its derivatives with respect to that variable. A simple example is Newton's second law of motion, which leads to the differential equation for the motion of a particle of constant mass m.
Duesberg hypothesis: The Duesberg hypothesis is the claim, associated with University of California, Berkeley professor Peter Duesberg, that various non-infectious factors such as recreational and pharmaceutical drug use are the cause of AIDS, and that HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is a harmless passenger virus. The most prominent defenders of this hypothesis are Duesberg himself, biochemist and vitamin proponent David Rasnick, and journalist Celia Farber.
Delft: Delft is a city and municipality in the province of South Holland (Zuid-Holland), the Netherlands. It is located in between Rotterdam and The Hague. Delft is primarily known for its typically Dutch town centre; also for the painter Vermeer, Delft Blue pottery, the Delft University of Technology, and its association with the Dutch royal family, the House of Orange-Nassau.
Diamagnetism: Diamagnetism is the property of an object which causes it to create a magnetic field in opposition of an externally applied magnetic field, thus causing a repulsive effect. Specifically, an external magnetic field alters the orbital velocity of electrons around their nuclei, thus changing the magnetic dipole moment in the direction opposing the external field. Diamagnets are materials with a magnetic permeability less than (a relative permeability less than 1).
Dinosaur: Dinosaurs ("terrible, powerful, or wondrous lizards") were the dominant terrestrial vertebrate animals for over 160 million years, from the late Triassic period (about 230 million years ago) until the end of the Cretaceous period (about 65 million years ago), when the Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction event caused the extinction of most dinosaur species.
Difference engine: The Difference Engine was an automatic, mechanical calculator designed to tabulate polynomial functions. Both logarithmic and trigonometric functions can be approximated by polynomials, so a difference engine can compute many useful sets of numbers.
Draupnir: In Norse mythology, Draupnir is a gold ring possessed by the god Odin with the ability to multiply itself. Draupnir was forged by the dwarven brothers Brokkr and Eitri. Brokkr and Eitri made this ring as one of a set of three gifts which included Mjlnir and Gullinbursti. They made these gifts in accordance with a wager Loki made saying that Brokk and Eitri could not make better gifts than the three made by the Sons of Ivaldi.
Duke of Marlborough: Duke of Marlborough, is a hereditary title in the Peerage of England. The first holder of the title was John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough (1650-1722), the noted English general, and indeed an unqualified reference to the Duke of Marlborough in a historical text will almost certainly refer to him.
Divergence: In vector calculus, divergence is an operator that measures the magnitude of a vector field's source or sink at a given point, in terms of a signed scalar. More technically, the divergence represents the volume density of the outward flux of a vector field from an infinitesimal volume around a given point. For example, consider air as it is heated or cooled. The relevant vector field for this example is the velocity of the moving air at a point.
Decision problem: In computability theory and computational complexity theory, a decision problem is a question in some formal system with a yes-or-no answer, depending on the values of some input parameters. For example, the problem "given two numbers x and y, does x evenly divide y?" is a decision problem. The answer can be either 'yes' or 'no', and depends upon the values of x and y.
David Letterman: David Michael Letterman (born April 12, 1947) is an American television host and comedian. He hosts the late night television talk show, Late Show with David Letterman broadcast on CBS. Letterman has been a fixture on late night television since the 1982 debut of Late Night with David Letterman on NBC. Only Letterman's friend and mentor Johnny Carson has had a longer late-night hosting career. Letterman is also a television and film producer.
Delroy Lindo: Delroy Lindo (born 18 November 1952) is a British-born Jamaican American actor. Lindo has been nominated for the Tony and Screen Actors Guild awards, and has won a Satellite Award. He is perhaps best known for his roles as West Indian Archie in Spike Lee's Malcolm X, Catlett in Get Shorty and Woody Carmichael in the Spike Lee film Crooklyn.
David Janssen: David Janssen (March 27, 1931 - February 13, 1980) was an American film and television actor who is best known for his starring role as Dr. Richard Kimble in the television series The Fugitive (1963-1967).
Domain Name System: The Domain Name System (DNS) is a hierarchical naming system for computers, services, or any resource connected to the Internet or a private network. It associates various information with domain names assigned to each of the participants. Most importantly, it translates domain names meaningful to humans into the numerical (binary) identifiers associated with networking equipment for the purpose of locating and addressing these devices worldwide.
Greek drachma: Drachma, pl. drachmas or drachmae (, pl. or ) is the name of the currency used in Greece during several periods in its history: An ancient currency unit found in many Greek city states and successor states, and in many South-West Asian kingdoms of the Hellenistic era. Three modern Greek currencies, the first introduced in 1832 and the last replaced by the euro in 2001 (at the rate of 340.750 drachma to the euro).
Denarius: In the Roman currency system, the denarius was a small silver coin first minted in 211 BC. It was the most common coin produced for circulation but was slowly debased until its replacement by the antoninianus. The word "denarius" is derived from the Latin dn "ten times", as its value was 10 asses; it may also be the origin of the word Dinar (see that page for further discussion).
Docetism: In Christianity, Docetism (from the Greek , "to seem") is the belief that Jesus' physical body was an illusion, as was his crucifixion; that is, Jesus only seemed to have a physical body and to physically die, but in reality he was incorporeal, a pure spirit, and hence could not physically die. This belief treats the sentence "the Word was made Flesh" as merely figurative. Docetism has historically been regarded as heretical by most Christian theologians.
House of della Rovere: Della Rovere was a noble historical family of Italy. Coming from modest beginnings in Savona, Liguria, the family rose to prominence through nepotism and ambitious marriages arranged by two Della Rovere popes, Francesco della Rovere, who ruled as Pope Sixtus IV (1471-1484) and his nephew Giuliano. Pope Sixtus IV is known for having built the Sistine Chapel, which is named for him. The Basilica San Pietro in Vincoli in Rome is the family church of the della Rovere.
David Mamet: David Alan Mamet (born November 30, 1947) is an American author, essayist, playwright, screenwriter, and film director. His works are known for their clever, terse, sometimes vulgar dialogue and arcane stylized phrasing, as well as for their exploration of masculinity. Mamet received Tony Award nominations for Glengarry Glen Ross (1984) and Speed-the-Plow (1988), as well as the Pulitzer Prize for Glengarry Glen Ross.
Definable real number: A real number a is first-order definable in the language of set theory, without parameters, if there is a formula in the language of set theory, with one free variable, such that a is the unique real number such that (a) holds (in the von Neumann universe V). For the purposes of this article, such reals will be called simply definable numbers. This should not be understood to be standard terminology. Note that this definition cannot be expressed in the language of set theory itself.
Divinity: Divinity and divine (sometimes 'the Divinity' or 'the Divine') are broadly applied but loosely defined terms, used variously within different faiths and belief systems and even by different individuals within a given faith to refer to some transcendent or transcendental power, or its attributes or manifestations in the world. The root of the words is literally 'Godlike', but the use varies significantly depending on which god is being discussed.
Diego de Almagro: Diego de Almagro, also known as El Adelantado and El Viejo (The Elder), was a Spanish conquistador and a companion and later rival of Francisco Pizarro. He participated in the Spanish conquest of Peru and is credited as the first European discoverer of Chile. Almagro lost his left eye battling with coastal natives in the New World. In 1525 he joined the Pizarro brothers and Herndo de Luque at Panama for the conquest of Peru.
December 2: 1409 - The University of Leipzig opens. 1755 - The second Eddystone Lighthouse is destroyed by fire. 1763 - Dedication of the Touro Synagogue, in Newport, Rhode Island, the first synagogue in what became the United States. 1804 - At Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris, Napoleon Bonaparte crowns himself Emperor of the French, the first French Emperor in a thousand years.
Dumnonii: The Dumnonii or Dumnones were a British Celtic tribe who inhabited the farther parts of the South West peninsula of Britain, from at least the Iron Age up to the early Saxon period. They were bordered to the east by the Durotriges.
Declaration of independence: Declaration of Independence is an assertion of the independence of an aspiring state or states. Such places are usually declared from part or all of the of another nation or failed nation, or are breakaway territories from within the larger state. Not all declarations of independence were successful and resulted in independence for these regions.
Depth of field: In optics, particularly as it relates to film and photography, the depth of field (DOF) is the portion of a scene that appears acceptably sharp in the image. Although a lens can precisely focus at only one distance, the decrease in sharpness is gradual on each side of the focused distance, so that within the DOF, the unsharpness is imperceptible under normal viewing conditions. In some cases, it may be desirable to have the entire image sharp, and a large DOF is appropriate.
Draugr: A draugr or draug (original Old Norse plural draugar, as used here, not draugrs), or draugen, also known as aptrgangr (lit. "after-goer," or "one who walks after death") is an undead creature from Norse mythology. The original Norse meaning of the word is ghost, and in older literature one will find clear distinctions between sea-draug and land-draug. Draugar were believed to live in the graves of dead Vikings, being the body of the dead.
December 24: December 24 is the 358th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar. There are seven days remaining until the end of the year. Christians know December 24 as Christmas Eve.
Day: A day (symbol d) is a unit of time equivalent to approximately 24 hours. It is not an SI unit but it is accepted for use with SI. The SI unit of time is the second. The word 'day' can also refer to the (roughly) half of the day that is not night, also known as 'daytime'. Both refer to a length of time. Within these meanings, several definitions can be distinguished. 'Day' may also refer to a day of the week or to a calendar date, as in answer to the question "On which day?".
Database: A database is a collection of data for one or more multiple uses. One way of classifying databases involves the type of content, for example: bibliographic, full-text, numeric, image. Other classification methods start from examining database models or database architectures: see below. Software organizes the data in a database according to a database model. As of 2010 the relational model occurs most commonly.
Dynamics: Dynamics (from Greek - dynamikos "powerful", from - dynamis "power") may refer to: Dynamics (music), In music, dynamics refers to the softness or loudness of a sound or note. The term is also applied to the written or printed musical notation used to indicate dynamics (also known as volume in a song) GBF Underground Mining
Dipole: In physics, there are two kinds of dipoles: An electric dipole is a separation of positive and negative charges. The simplest example of this is a pair of electric charges of equal magnitude but opposite sign, separated by some (usually small) distance. A permanent electric dipole is called an electret. A magnetic dipole is a closed circulation of electric current. A simple example of this is a single loop of wire with some constant current flowing through it.
Drag racing: Drag racing is a competition in which vehicles compete to be the first to cross a set finish line, usually from a standing start, and in a straight line. First gaining popularity in the USA after World War II, the sport steadily grew in popularity and spread across the globe. By 2009, there were hundreds of dragstrips in operation, mainly in developed countries. Most drag races begin with a standing (stationary) start and are just 1/4 mile long (1,320 ft).
Draught beer: Draught beer (also known as draft beer or tap beer) has several related though slightly different understandings. Most references to draught beer are to filtered beer that has been served from a pressurised container, such as a keg or a widget can. A narrower meaning, beer that is served from a keg (or tap), but not from a can, bottle or cask, is also used. A more traditional definition is beer that is served from a large container, which could be either a keg or a cask.
Director: Director may refer to:
Diana mythology: Diana (lt. "heavenly" or "divine") was the goddess of the hunt, being associated with wild animals and woodland, and also of the moon in Roman mythology. In literature she was the equivalent of the Greek goddess Artemis, though in cult beliefs she was Italic, not Greek, in origin. Diana was worshiped in ancient Roman religion and is currently revered in Roman Neopaganism and Stregheria. Dianic Wicca, a largely feminist form of the practice, is named for her.
Danny Elfman: Daniel Robert "Danny" Elfman (born May 29, 1953) is an American musician, best known for composing music for television and movies and leading the rock band Oingo Boingo as singer/songwriter from 1976 until its breakup in 1995. He is a frequent collaborator with long-time friend Tim Burton and has scored all of his films (with the exception of Ed Wood and ').
Major depressive disorder: Major depressive disorder (also known as clinical depression, major depression, unipolar depression, or unipolar disorder) is a mental disorder characterized by an all-encompassing low mood accompanied by low self-esteem, and loss of interest or pleasure in normally enjoyable activities.
Dimension: In mathematics and physics, the dimension of a space or object is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify each point within it. Thus a line has a dimension of one because only one coordinate is needed to specify a point on it.
David Hayes Agnew: David Hayes Agnew (November 24, 1818 - March 22, 1892) was an American surgeon, born in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. He graduated from the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania in 1838, and a few years later set up in practice at Philadelphia and became a lecturer at the Philadelphia School of Anatomy. He married Margaret Irwin in 1841. He also helped found the Irwin & Agnew Iron Foundry in 1846.
Dative case: The dative case (abbreviated dat, or sometimes d when it is a core argument) is a grammatical case generally used to indicate the noun to whom something is given. For example, in "John gave Mary a book". The name is derived from the Latin casus dativus, meaning "the case appropriate to giving"; this was in turn modelled on the Greek , from its use with the verb (didai) "to give".
Dodecahedron: In geometry, a dodecahedron (Greek , from 'twelve' + 'base', 'seat' or 'face') is any polyhedron with twelve flat faces, but usually a regular dodecahedron is meant: a Platonic solid. It is composed of 12 regular pentagonal faces, with three meeting at each vertex, and is represented by the Schlli symbol (5,3). It has 20 vertices and 30 edges. Its dual polyhedron is the icosahedron, with Schlli symbol (3,5).
Duodecimal: The duodecimal system (also known as base-12 or dozenal) is a positional notation numeral system using twelve as its base. In this system, the number ten may be written as 'A' or 'X', and the number eleven as 'B' or 'E' (another common notation, introduced by Sir Isaac Pitman, is to use a rotated '2' for ten and a reversed '3' for eleven).
Diving: Diving is the sport of jumping or falling into water from a platform or springboard, sometimes while performing acrobatics. Diving is an internationally-recognized sport that is part of the Olympic Games. In addition, unstructured and non-competitive diving is a recreational pastime. Diving is one of the most popular Olympic sports with spectators.
Dictator: For the ancient Roman title, see Roman dictator. A dictator is a ruler who assumes sole and absolute power (sometimes but not always with military control) but, without hereditary ascension such as an absolute monarch. When other states call the head of state of a particular state a dictator, that state is called a dictatorship. The word originated as the title of a magistrate in ancient Rome appointed by the Senate to rule the republic in times of emergency.
Darwin Northern Territory: Darwin is the capital city of the Northern Territory, Australia. Situated on the Timor Sea, Darwin has a population of 120,652, making it by far the largest and most populated city in the sparsely populated Northern Territory, but the least populous of all Australia's capital cities. It is the smallest and most northerly of the Australian capital cities, and acts as the Top End's regional centre.
Decibel: The decibel (dB) is a logarithmic unit of measurement that expresses the magnitude of a physical quantity relative to a specified or implied reference level. Since it expresses a ratio of two quantities with the same unit, it is a dimensionless unit. A decibel is one tenth of a bel, a seldom-used unit. The decibel is widely known as a measure of sound pressure level, but is also used for a wide variety of other measurements in science and engineering and other disciplines.
Darwinism: Darwinism is a set of movements and concepts related to ideas of transmutation of species or evolution, including ideas with no connection to the work of Charles Darwin. The meaning of Darwinism has changed over time, and varies depending on who is using the term. In the United States, Darwinism is often used by creationists as a pejorative term but in the United Kingdom the term has no negative connotations, being freely used as a short hand for evolutionary theory.
Dartmouth: Dartmouth may mean:
Dartmouth Devon: Dartmouth is a town and civil parish in the English county of Devon. It is a tourist destination set on the banks of the estuary of the River Dart, which is a long narrow tidal ria that runs inland as far as Totnes. It lies within the South Devon Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty and South Hams District, and has a population of 5,512.
Dartmouth College: Dartmouth College is a private, coeducational liberal arts college located in Hanover, New Hampshire, USA. Incorporated as "Trustees of Dartmouth College," it is a member of the Ivy League and one of the nine Colonial Colleges founded before the American Revolution. In addition to its undergraduate liberal arts program, Dartmouth has medical, engineering, and business schools, as well as 19 graduate programs in the arts and sciences.
Dartmoor Preservation Association: The Dartmoor Preservation Association, or DPA, was founded in 1883. Founder members were concerned that the wholesale enclosures of large tracts of Dartmoor were encroaching upon the traditional rights of commoners. They commissioned research to establish the legal basis of ancient commoners rights and subsequently successfully challenged new attempts at enclosure upon the Forest of Dartmoor.
Doraemon: Doraemon is a Japanese manga series created by Fujiko F. Fujio (the pen name of Hiroshi Fujimoto) and Fujiko A. Fujio (the pen name of Mot Abiko) which later became an anime series and Asian franchise. The series is about a robotic cat named Doraemon, who travels back in time from the 22nd century to aid a schoolboy, Nobita Nobi . The series first appeared in December 1969, when it was published simultaneously in six different magazines.
Dwight Schultz: William Dwight Schultz (born November 24, 1947) is an American stage, television, and film actor. He is best known for his roles as Captain "Howling Mad" Murdock on the 1980s action show The A-Team, Reginald Barclay in ', ', and the film ', and Mung Daal in the children's cartoon Chowder.
Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine: The Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP) is a Palestinian Marxist-Leninist, secular political and military organization. It is also frequently referred to as the Democratic Front, or al-Jabha al-Dimuqratiyah ( ). It is a member organization of the Palestine Liberation Organization.
Tambalacoque: Tambalacoque (Sideroxylon grandiflorum; formerly Calvaria major), also called the Dodo Tree, is a long-lived tree in the family Sapotaceae, endemic to Mauritius. The Dodo Tree is valued for its timber. Tambalacoque is analogous to Peach. Both have a hard endocarp surrounding the seed, but the endocarp naturally splits along a fracture line during germination. In 1973, it was thought that this species was dying out.
Dodo: The dodo (Raphus cucullatus) was a flightless bird endemic to the Indian Ocean island of Mauritius. Related to pigeons and doves, it stood about a meter (3 feet) tall, weighing about 20 kilograms (44 lb), living on fruit and nesting on the ground. The dodo has been extinct since the mid-to-late 17th century. It is commonly used as the archetype of an extinct species because its extinction occurred during recorded human history, and was directly attributable to human activity.
Density: The density of a material is defined as its mass per unit volume. The symbol of density is (the Greek letter rho).
David Angell: David Lawrence Angell (April 10, 1946 - September 11, 2001) was an American producer of sitcoms. Angell won multiple Emmy Awards as the creator and executive producer, along with Peter Casey and David Lee, of the comedy series Frasier. David was killed in the 9/11 attack. He was on American Airlines Flight 11 with his wife, who also perished.
Dave Barry: David "Dave" Barry (born July 3, 1947) is a Pulitzer Prize-winning American author and columnist, who wrote a nationally syndicated humor column for the The Miami Herald from 1983 to 2005. He has also written numerous books of humor and parody, as well as comedic novels.
Diedrich Hermann Westermann: Diedrich Hermann Westermann (June 24, 1875-May 31, 1956) was a German missionary, Africanist, and linguist. He substantially extended and revised the work of Carl Meinhof, his teacher, although he rejected some of Meinhof's theories only implicitly. Westermann is seen as one of the founders of modern African linguistics. He carried out extensive linguistic and anthropological research in the area ranging from Senegal eastwards to the Upper Nile.
Digraph: Digraph may refer to: Digraph (orthography), a pair of characters used together to produce a distinct sound, such as "sh" in English Typographical ligature, the joining of two letters as a single glyph, such as "" Digraph (computing), a two-character sequence used in computing to enter a single conceptual character Digraph or directed graph, in graph theory
Diacritic: A diacritic (also diacritical mark, diacritical point, diacritical sign) is an ancillary glyph added to a letter, or basic glyph. The term derives from the Greek (diakritik, "distinguishing"). Diacritic is both an adjective and a noun, whereas diacritical is only an adjective. Some diacritical marks, such as the acute (&thinsp;&thinsp) and grave (&thinsp;`&thinsp) but not the cedilla (&thinsp;&thinsp), are often called accents.
Developmental biology: Developmental biology is the study of the process by which organisms grow and develop. Modern developmental biology studies the genetic control of cell growth, differentiation and "morphogenesis," which is the process that gives rise to tissues, organs and anatomy. Developmental biology is that branch of life science, which deals with the study of the process by which organisms grow and develop.
Double planet: "Double planet" is an informal term used to describe a planet with a moon that may be large enough to be considered a planet in its own right; one definition requires that the objects orbit a center of gravity that is above their surfaces. The formal term is "binary system". Similarly, there are also double asteroid systems such as 90 Antiope, and double Kuiper belt object systems such as (79360) 1997 CS29 and 1998 WW31. As of 2009, there are no official double planets.
Denaturation biochemistry: Denaturation is a process in which proteins or nucleic acids lose their tertiary structure and secondary structure by application of some external stress or compound, such as a strong acid or base, a concentrated inorganic salt, an organic solvent, or heat. If proteins in a living cell are denatured, this results in disruption of cell activity and possibly cell death. Denatured proteins can exhibit a wide range of characteristics, from loss of solubility to communal aggregation.
Didgeridoo: The didgeridoo (also known as a didjeridu or didge) is a wind instrument developed by Indigenous Australians of northern Australia at least 1,500 years ago and is still in widespread usage today both in Australia and around the world. It is sometimes described as a natural wooden trumpet or "drone pipe". Musicologists classify it as an aerophone. The instrument is traditionally made from Eucalyptus trees which have had their interiors hollowed out by termites or died of other causes.
Dartmoor wildlife: Dartmoor and the fact that a great deal of it is undisturbed for much of the year is an encouragement to the wildlife. The more common mammals include: Dartmoor ponies, rabbits, foxes, otters, badgers, grey squirrels, weasels, stoats, hares and deer. Rumours abound of large wild cats such as cougars roaming wild on the moor, but little evidence has been forthcoming and until anything more substantial is available these reports should be filed under the general heading of cryptozoology.
Dwight L. Moody: Dwight Lyman Moody (February 5, 1837 - December 22, 1899), also known as D.L. Moody, was an American evangelist and publisher who founded the Moody Church, Northfield School and Mount Hermon School in Massachusetts (now the Northfield Mount Hermon School), the Moody Bible Institute and Moody Publishers.
Disaccharide: A disaccharide is the carbohydrate formed when two monosaccharides undergo a condensation reaction which involves the elimination of a small molecule, such as water, from the functional groups only. Like monosaccharides, disaccharides also dissolve in water, taste sweet and are called sugars. 'Disaccharide' is one of the four chemical groupings of carbohydrates .
Dubnium: Dubnium is a chemical element with the symbol Db and atomic number 105. This is a radioactive synthetic element whose most stable isotope is Db with a half life of 28 hours. This is the longest lived transactinide isotope and is a reflection of the stability of the Z = 108 and N = 162 closed shells and the effect of odd particles in nuclear decay. Chemistry experiments have provided sufficient evidence to confidently place dubnium in group 5 of the Periodic Table.
Dieting: Dieting is the practice of ingesting food in a regulated fashion to achieve or maintain a controlled weight. In most cases dieting is used in combination with physical exercise to lose weight in those who are overweight or obese. Some athletes however aspire to gain weight (usually in the form of muscle). Diets can also be used to maintain a stable body weight. Diets to promote weight loss are generally divided into four categories: low-fat, low-carbohydrate, low-calorie, and very low calorie.
Dactylic hexameter: Dactylic hexameter (also known as "heroic hexameter") is a form of meter in poetry or a rhythmic scheme. It is traditionally associated with the quantitative meter of classical epic poetry in both Greek and Latin, and was consequently considered to be the Grand Style of classical poetry. The premier examples of its use are Homer's Iliad and Odyssey and Virgil's Aeneid. The meter consists of lines made from six ("hexa") feet.
Draco lawgiver: Draco was the first legislator of ancient Athens, Greece, 7th century BC. He replaced the prevailing system of oral laws and blood feud by a written codex to be enforced only by a court. Due to its harshness this code also gave rise to the term "draconian".
Diet: Diet, in relation to food, might mean: Diet (nutrition), the sum of the food consumed by an organism or group. Dieting, the deliberate selection of food to control body weight or nutrient intake.
Dorado: Dorado is a constellation in the southern sky, created in the late sixteenth century and now one of the 88 modern constellations. Its name refers to the dolphinfish (Coryphaena hippurus), which is known as dorado in Spanish, although it has also been depicted as a swordfish in the past. Dorado is notable for containing most of the Large Magellanic Cloud, the remainder being in the constellation Mensa. The South Ecliptic Pole also lies within this constellation.
Determinant: In algebra, the determinant is a special number associated with any square matrix. The fundamental geometric meaning of a determinant is a scale factor for measure when the matrix is regarded as a linear transformation. Thus a 2 &times; 2 matrix with determinant 2 when applied to a set of points with finite area will transform those points into a set with twice the area.
David Ricardo: David Ricardo (19 April 1772 - 11 September 1823) was an English political economist, often credited with systematizing economics, and was one of the most influential of the classical economists, along with Thomas Malthus and Adam Smith. He was also a member of Parliament, businessman, financier and speculator, who amassed a considerable personal fortune.
Disk storage: Disk storage or disc storage is a general category of storage mechanisms, in which data are digitally recorded by various electronic, magnetic, optical, or mechanical methods on a surface layer deposited of one or more planar, round and rotating platters. A disk drive is a device implementing such a storage mechanism with fixed or removable media; with removable media the device is usually distinguished from the media as in CD drive and CD disc.
Delphinus: Delphinus is a constellation in the northern sky, close to the celestial equator. Its name is Latin for dolphin. It is one of the smaller constellations, ranked 69th in size out of 88. Delphinus was one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and it remains among the 88 modern constellations recognized by the International Astronomical Union. Delphinus's brightest stars form a distinctive asterism that can easily be recognized.
Disk operating system: Disk Operating System (specifically) and disk operating system (generically), most often abbreviated as DOS (not to be confused with the DOS family of disk operating systems for the IBM PC compatible platform), refer to operating system software used in most computers that provides the abstraction and management of secondary storage devices and the information on them (e.g. , file systems for organizing files of all sorts).
Arthur Wellesley 1st Duke of Wellington: Field Marshal Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, KG, KP, GCB, GCH, PC, FRS (c. 29 April/1 May 1769 - 14 September 1852), was an Anglo-Irish soldier and statesman, and one of the leading military and political figures of the nineteenth century. Born in Ireland to a prominent Ascendancy family, he was commissioned an ensign in the British Army in 1787.
Diesel cycle: The Diesel cycle is the thermodynamic cycle which approximates the pressure and volume of the combustion chamber of the Diesel engine, invented by Rudolph Diesel in 1897. It is assumed to have constant pressure during the first part of the "combustion" phase, v2 to v3 in the diagram. This is mostly a mathematical model: real physical diesels do have an increase in pressure during this period, but it is less pronounced than in the Otto cycle.
Dual: Dual may refer to: a pair or a grouping of two: dual diagnosis, a psychiatric diagnosis of co-occurrence of substance abuse and a mental problem dual fertilization, simultaneous application of a P-type and N-type fertilizer DUAL table, a special kind of one-row and one-column database table dual (grammatical number), a grammatical category used in some languages.
Doublespeak: Doublespeak (sometimes called doubletalk) is any language that deliberately disguises, distorts, or reverses the meaning of words, resulting in a communication bypass. Doublespeak may take the form of euphemisms; intentional ambiguity; or the reversal of meaning (for example, calling war "peace", or maintaining the status quo "change").
Diego Maradona: Diego Armando Maradona is an Argentine former football player, and current manager of the Argentine national team. He finished first in an internet vote for the FIFA Player of the Century award, and he shared the award with Pel. Over the course of his professional club career Maradona played for Argentinos Juniors, Boca Juniors, Barcelona, Sevilla, Newell's Old Boys and Napoli, setting world-record contract fees.
Deus Ex: Deus Ex is a cyberpunk-themed action role-playing game developed by Ion Storm Inc. and published by Eidos Interactive in the year 2000, which combines gameplay elements of first-person shooters with those of role playing games. The game received almost worldwide critical and industry acclaim, including being named "Best PC Game of All Time" in PC Gamer's Top 100 PC Games and in a poll carried out by UK gaming magazine PC Zone.
David Brewster: Sir David Brewster FRS (11 December 1781 - 10 February 1868) was a Scottish physicist, mathematician, astronomer, inventor, and writer.
Dual-tone multi-frequency signaling: Dual-tone multi-frequency signaling (DTMF) is used for telecommunication signaling over analog telephone lines in the voice-frequency band between telephone handsets and other communications devices and the switching center. The version of DTMF used for push-button telephone tone dialing is known as Touch-Tone, first used by AT&T in commerce as a registered trademark, and is standardized by ITU-T Recommendation Q.23. It is also known in the UK as MF4.
Deuterocanonical books: Deuterocanonical books is a term used since the sixteenth century in the Catholic Church and Eastern Christianity to describe certain books and passages of the Christian Old Testament that are not part of the Hebrew Bible. The term is used in contrast to the protocanonical books, which are contained in the Hebrew Bible. This distinction had previously contributed to debate in the early Church about whether they should be read in the churches and thus be classified as canonical texts.
Discus throw: The discus throw is an event in track and field competition, in which an athlete throws a heavy disc called a discus in an attempt to mark a farther distance than his or her competitors. It is an ancient sport, as evidenced by the 5th century BC Myron statue, Discobolus. Although not part of the modern pentathlon, it was one of the events of the ancient pentathlon, which can be dated at least back to 708 BC.
Dressed to Kill 1980 film: Dressed to Kill is a 1980 suspense film written and directed by Brian de Palma. It stars Michael Caine, Angie Dickinson and Nancy Allen. The original music score is composed by Pino Donaggio. The film is marketed with the tagline "Brian de Palma, master of the macabre, invites you to a showing of the latest fashion... in murder. " It centers on the murder of a housewife, and the investigation headed by the witness to the murder, a young prostitute, and the housewifes teenaged son.
Discrete mathematics: Discrete mathematics is the study of mathematical structures that are fundamentally discrete rather than continuous. In contrast to real numbers that have the property of varying "smoothly", the objects studied in discrete mathematics - such as integers, graphs, and statements in logic - do not vary smoothly in this way, but have distinct, separated values. Discrete mathematics therefore excludes topics in "continuous mathematics" such as calculus and analysis.
Data set: A data set (or dataset) is a collection of data, usually presented in tabular form. Each column represents a particular variable. Each row corresponds to a given member of the data set in question. Its values for each of the variables, such as height and weight of an object or values of random numbers. Each value is known as a datum. The data set may comprise data for one or more members, corresponding to the number of rows.
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders: The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) is published by the American Psychiatric Association and provides a common language and standard criteria for the classification of mental disorders. It is used in the United States and in varying degrees around the world, by clinicians, researchers, psychiatric drug regulation agencies, health insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies and policy makers. The DSM has attracted controversy and criticism as well as praise.
DDT: DDT (from its trivial name, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane) is one of the most well-known synthetic pesticides. It is a chemical with a long, unique, and controversial history. First synthesized in 1874, DDT's insecticidal properties were not discovered until 1939, and it was used with great success in the second half of World War II to control malaria and typhus among civilians and troops.
DMA: DMA can refer to: Dallas Museum of Art, an art museum in Texas, USA DMA (magazine), a defunct dance music magazine Danish Music Awards, an award show held in Denmark since 1989 Davis-Monthan Air Force Base (IATA airport code), near Tucson, Arizona, USA Defense Mapping Agency, a former (1972-1996) agency of the US Department of Defense.
Dar es Salaam: Dar es Salaam, formerly Mzizima, is the largest city in Tanzania. It is also the country's richest city and a regionally important economic centre. Dar es Salaam is actually an administrative province within Tanzania, and consists of three local government areas or administrative districts: Kinondoni to the north, Ilala in the center of the region, and Temeke to the south. The Dar es Salaam Region had a population of 2,497,940 as of the official 2002 census.
Slalom skiing: Slalom is an alpine skiing discipline, involving skiing between poles (gates) spaced much closer together than in Giant Slalom, Super-G or Downhill, thereby causing quicker and shorter turns.
Distributed computing: Distributed computing is a field of computer science that studies distributed systems. A distributed system consists of multiple autonomous computers that communicate through a computer network. The computers interact with each other in order to achieve a common goal. A computer program that runs in a distributed system is called a distributed program, and distributed programming is the process of writing such programs.
DirectX: Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming interfaces (APIs) for handling tasks related to multimedia, especially game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms. Originally, the names of these APIs all began with Direct, such as Direct3D, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, DirectPlay, DirectSound, and so forth. The name DirectX was coined as shorthand term for all of these APIs (the X standing in for the particular API names) and soon became the name of the collection.
Dublin: Dublin is the largest city and capital of or h Cliath; the English name comes from the Irish Dubh Linn meaning "black pool". It is located near the midpoint of Ireland's east coast, at the mouth of the River Liffey and at the centre of the Dublin Region. Originally founded as a Viking settlement, it evolved into the Kingdom of Dublin and became the island's primary city following the Norman invasion.
Data structure: In computer science, a data structure is a particular way of storing and organizing data in a computer so that it can be used efficiently. Different kinds of data structures are suited to different kinds of applications, and some are highly specialized to specific tasks. For example, B-trees are particularly well-suited for implementation of databases, while compiler implementations usually use hash tables to look up identifiers.
Database management system: A Database Management System (DBMS) is a set of computer programs that controls the creation, maintenance, and the use of the database with computer as a platform or of an organization and its end users. It allows organizations to place control of organization-wide database development in the hands of database administrators (DBAs) and other specialists. A DBMS is a system software package that helps the use of integrated collection of data records and files known as databases.
Dachshund: The dachshund is a short-legged, elongated dog breed, of the hound family. The standard size was developed to scent, chase, and flush badgers and other burrow-dwelling animals, while the miniature was developed to hunt smaller prey, like rabbits. In the American West, they have also been used to hunt prairie dogs. The name "dachshund" is of . Because of their long, narrow build, they are sometimes nicknamed hot dog dog, wiener dog or sausage dog.
Doom video game: Doom (often typeset as DOOM) is a landmark 1993 first-person shooter computer game by id Software. It is widely recognized for having popularized the first person shooter genre, pioneering immersive 3D graphics as well as true third dimension spatiality, networked multiplayer gaming, and support for customized additions and modifications. Its graphic and interactive violence, as well as its Satanic imagery, also made it the subject of considerable controversy.
Denver: The City and County of Denver is the capital and the most populous city of the U.S. state of Colorado. Denver is a consolidated city-county, located in the South Platte River Valley on the High Plains, just east of the Front Range of the Rocky Mountains. The Denver downtown district is located immediately east of the confluence of Cherry Creek with the South Platte River, approximately 15 miles (24 km) east of the foothills of the Rocky Mountains.
Dmitri Shostakovich: Dmitri Dmitriyevich Shostakovich (25 September 1906 - 9 August 1975) was a Russian composer of the Soviet period and one of the most celebrated composers of the 20th century. Shostakovich achieved fame in the Soviet Union under the patronage of Leon Trotsky's chief of staff Mikhail Tukhachevsky, but later had a complex and difficult relationship with the Stalinist bureaucracy. His music was officially denounced twice, in 1936 and 1948, and was periodically banned.
Digital signal processing: Digital signal processing (DSP) is concerned with the representation of signals by a sequence of numbers or symbols and the processing of these signals. Digital signal processing and analog signal processing are subfields of signal processing.
Disjunction introduction: Disjunction introduction or Addition is a valid, simple argument form in logic: A. Therefore, A or B. or in logical operator notation: The argument form has one premise, A, and an unrelated proposition, B. From the premise it can be logically concluded that either A or B is true, or both are true. Here is an example of such an argument: Socrates is a man.
Discordianism: Discordianism is (and is not) a religion centered on the idea that chaos is all that there is, and that disorder and order are both illusions that are imposed on chaos. These are referred to, respectively, as the "Eristic" and "Aneristic" illusions. It was founded circa 1958-1959 by Malaclypse the Younger with the publication of its principal text, the Principia Discordia. There is some division as to whether it should be regarded as a parody religion, and if so to what degree.
Disjunction elimination: In propositional logic disjunction elimination is the inference that, if "A or B" is true, and A entails C, and B entails C, then we may justifiably infer C. The reasoning is simple: since at least one of the statements A and B is true, and since either of them would be sufficient to entail C, C is certainly true. For example: It is true that either I'm inside or I'm outside. It is also true that if I'm inside, I have my wallet on me. It's also true that if I'm outside, I have my wallet on me.
Dragon: Dragons are legendary creatures, typically with serpentine or otherwise reptilian traits, that feature in the myths of many cultures. The two most familiar interpretations of dragons are European dragons, derived from various European folk traditions, and the unrelated Oriental dragons, such as the Chinese dragon. The English word derives from Greek (drn), "dragon, serpent of huge size, water-snake", which probably comes from the verb (draken) "to see clearly".
Deuterium: Deuterium, also called heavy hydrogen, is a stable isotope of hydrogen with a natural abundance in the oceans of Earth of approximately one atom in 6,500 of hydrogen. Deuterium thus accounts for approximately 0.0154% of all naturally occurring hydrogen in the oceans on Earth (see VSMOW; the abundance changes slightly from one kind of natural water to another).
Depeche Mode: Depeche Mode are an English electronic band which formed in 1980, in Basildon, Essex. The group's original line-up consisted of Dave Gahan (lead vocals), Martin Gore (keyboards, guitar, vocals, chief songwriter after 1981), Andrew Fletcher (keyboards) and Vince Clarke (keyboards, chief songwriter 1980-81). Vince Clarke left the band after the release of their 1981 debut album, and was replaced by Alan Wilder (keyboards, drums, production) with Gore taking over songwriting.
Differential cryptanalysis: Differential cryptanalysis is a general form of cryptanalysis applicable primarily to block ciphers, but also to stream ciphers and cryptographic hash functions. In the broadest sense, it is the study of how differences in an input can affect the resultant difference at the output.
Devil: The Devil is believed in certain religions and cultures to be a powerful, supernatural entity that is the personification of evil and the enemy of God and humankind. The Devil is commonly associated with heretics, infidels, and other unbelievers. The Abrahamic religions have variously regarded the Devil as a rebellious fallen angel or demon that tempts humans to sin or commit evil deeds.
Document Type Definition: Document Type Definition (DTD) is a set of markup declarations that define a document type for SGML-family markup languages. A DTD is a kind of XML schema. DTDs use a terse formal syntax that declares precisely which elements and references may appear where in the document of the particular type, and what the elements contents and attributes are. DTDs also declare entities which may be used in the instance document. XML uses a subset of SGML DTD.
Diesel engine: A diesel engine (sometimes capitalized as Diesel engine) is an internal combustion engine that uses the heat of compression to initiate ignition to burn the fuel, which is injected into the combustion chamber during the final stage of compression. This is in contrast to a petrol engine (known as a gasoline engine in North America) or gas engine (using a gaseous fuel, not gasoline), which uses the Otto cycle, in which an air-fuel mixture is ignited by a spark plug.
Dark Star: Dark Star or Darkstar may refer to:
Dead Sea: The Dead Sea, also called the Salt Sea, is a salt lake bordering Israel and the West Bank to the west, and Jordan to the east. Its surface and shores are 422 metres (1,385 ft) below sea level, the lowest elevation on the Earth's surface on dry land. The Dead Sea is 378 m (1,240 ft) deep, the deepest hypersaline lake in the world. It is also one of the world's saltiest bodies of water, with 33.7% salinity.
Drawing: Drawing is a visual art that makes use of any number of drawing instruments to mark a two-dimensional medium. Common instruments include graphite pencils, pen and ink, inked brushes, wax color pencils, crayons, charcoals, chalk, pastels, markers, stylus, or various metals like silverpoint. An artist who practices or works in drawing may be referred to as a draftsman or draughtsman.
Down: Down may refer to: Relative direction, where down is the direction towards the centre of gravity of a celestial object. Railroad directions, where down and up have locally significant meanings Down feather, a soft bird feather frequently used in manufacture of bedding.
Dedham Massachusetts: Dedham /dm/ is a town in and the county seat of Norfolk County, Massachusetts, United States. The population was 23,464 at the 2000 census. It is located on Boston's southwest border. On the northwest it is bordered by Needham, on the southwest by Westwood and on the southeast by Canton.
Book of Deuteronomy: Deuteronomy or Devarim is the fifth book of the Hebrew Bible, and the fifth of five books of the Jewish Torah/Pentateuch. A large part of the book consists of three sermons delivered by Moses reviewing the previous forty years of wandering in the wilderness, and the future entering into the Promised Land. Its central element is a detailed law-code by which the Israelites are to live within the Promised Land.
Design: Design is the planning that lays the basis for the making of every object or system. It can be used both as a noun and as a verb and, in a broader way, it means applied arts and engineering . As a verb, "to design" refers to the process of originating and developing a plan for a product, structure, system, or component with intention. As a noun, "a design" is used for either the final (solution) plan (e.g.
Denormalization: Denormalization is the process of attempting to optimize the performance of a database by adding redundant data or by grouping data. In some cases, denormalization helps cover up the inefficiencies inherent in relational database software. A relational normalized database imposes a heavy access load over physical storage of data even if it is well tuned for high performance.
Differential topology: In mathematics, differential topology is the field dealing with differentiable functions on differentiable manifolds. It is closely related to differential geometry and together they make up the geometric theory of differentiable manifolds.
David: David Hebrew: , David dwi, "beloved"; Arabic: &lrm;, Dwud; Greek: was the second king of the united Kingdom of Israel according to the Bible. He is depicted as a righteous king, although not without fault, as well as an acclaimed warrior, musician and poet, traditionally credited for composing many of the psalms contained in the Book of Psalms.
Diffeomorphism: In mathematics, a diffeomorphism is an isomorphism in the category of smooth manifolds. It is an invertible function that maps one differentiable manifold to another, such that both the function and its inverse are smooth.
Diablo II: Diablo II is a dark fantasy-themed action role-playing game, with elements of the hack and slash and "dungeon roaming" genres. It was released for Windows and Mac OS in 2000 by Blizzard Entertainment, and was developed by Blizzard North. It is the sequel to the 1996 hit PC game, Diablo. Diablo II was one of the most popular games of 2000. Major factors that contributed to Diablo II's success include its addictive gameplay and access to the free online play service, Battle. net.
Dune Messiah: Dune Messiah is a science fiction novel by Frank Herbert, the second in a series of six novels. It was originally serialized in Galaxy magazine in 1969. The American and British editions have different prologues summarizing events in the previous novel. The novels Dune Messiah and Children of Dune were adapted by the Sci-Fi Channel in 2003 into a mini-series entitled Frank Herbert's Children of Dune. In 2002, the Science Fiction Book Club also published the two novels in one volume.
Duke Nukem 3D: Duke Nukem 3D is a first-person shooter computer game developed by 3D Realms and published by Apogee Software. It was released on January 29, 1996 for the PC. It is a sequel to the platform games Duke Nukem and Duke Nukem II published by Apogee. An expansion pack, Plutonium Pak, was released in November 1996. Duke Nukem 3D features the adventures of the titular macho Duke Nukem, who fights back an alien invasion on Earth. Reception of Duke Nukem 3D has been largely positive.
Detroit Lions: The Detroit Lions are an American football team based in Detroit, Michigan. They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL), and play their home games at Ford Field in downtown Detroit. Originally based in Portsmouth, Ohio and called the Portsmouth Spartans, the team began play in 1929 as an independent professional team, one of many such teams in the Ohio and Scioto River valleys.
Daoism Taoism romanization issue: In English, the words Daoism and Taoism are the subject of an ongoing controversy over the preferred romanization for naming this native Chinese philosophy and Chinese religion. The root Chinese word "way, path" is romanized tao in the older Wade-Giles system and d in the modern Pinyin system. The sometimes heated arguments over Taoism vs. Daoism involve sinology, phonemes, loanwords, and politicsnot to mention whether Taoism should be pronounced /a. zm/ or /a. zm/.
Dyne: In physics, the dyne (symbol "dyn", from Greek meaning power, force) is a unit of force specified in the centimetre-gram-second (CGS) system of units, a predecessor of the modern SI. One dyne is equal to exactly 10 .
Detroit Tigers: The Detroit Tigers are a Major League Baseball team based in Detroit, Michigan. One of the American League's eight charter franchises, the club was founded in Detroit in 1894. The Tigers have won four World Series championships (1935, 1945, 1968 and 1984) and have won the American League pennant 10 times. Since 2000, the team has played at Comerica Park. The Tigers constructed Bennett Park at the corner of Michigan Avenue and Trumbull Avenue and began playing there in 1896.
Deism: Deism is a religious and philosophical belief that a supreme being created the universe, and that this (and religious truth in general) can be determined using reason and observation of the natural world alone, without the need for either faith or organized religion. Deists tend to, but do not necessarily, reject the notion that God intervenes in human affairs, for example through miracles and revelations.
Diocletian: Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletianus (c. 22 December 244 - 3 December 311), born Diocles and commonly known as Diocletian, was Roman Emperor from 20 November 284 to 1 May 305. Born to an Illyrian family of low status, he rose through the ranks of the military to become cavalry commander to the emperor Carus. After the deaths of Carus and his son Numerian on campaign in Persia, Diocletian was acclaimed emperor by the army.
Dramaturge: A dramaturge or dramaturg is a position within a theatre that deals mainly with research and development. It has gained its modern-day function through the innovations of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, a playwright and theatre practitioner who worked in Germany in the 18th century. The dramaturg's contribution was to categorize and discuss the various types and kinds of plays, their interconnectedness and their styles.
Dispersion: Dispersion may refer to: In physics: The dependency of wave velocity on frequency. Dispersion relation describes the interrelation of wave properties like wavelength, frequency, velocities, refraction index, attenuation coefficient. Dielectric dispersion Dispersion (optics) is the phenomenon in which the phase velocity of a wave depends on its frequency, or alternatively when the group velocity depends on the frequency. Dispersion (water waves).
Tao Te Ching: The Tao Te Ching or Dao De Jing, whose authorship has been attributed to Laozi, is a Chinese classic text. Its name comes from the opening words of its two sections: d "way," Chapter 1, and d "virtue," Chapter 38, plus jng "classic. " According to tradition, it was written around the 6th century BC by the sage Laozi (or Lao Tzu, "Old Master"), a record-keeper at the Zhou Dynasty court, by whose name the text is known in China.
Dyson sphere: A Dyson sphere is a hypothetical megastructure originally described by Freeman Dyson. Such a "sphere" would be a system of orbiting solar power satellites meant to completely encompass a star and capture most or all of its energy output.
Democide: Democide is a term coined by political scientist R. J. Rummel for "the murder of any person or people by a government, including genocide, politicide, and mass murder. " Rummel created the term as an extended concept to include forms of government murder that are not covered by the legal definition of genocide, and it has found currency among other scholars.
Diaspora studies: Diaspora studies is an academic field established in the late twentieth century to study dispersed ethnic populations, which are often termed diaspora peoples. The usage of the term diaspora carries the connotation of forced resettlement, due to expulsion, slavery, racism, or war, especially nationalist conflict.
Domitian: Titus Flavius Domitianus (24 October 51 - 18 September 96), known as Domitian, was the eleventh Roman Emperor, who reigned from 14 September 81 until his death. Domitian was the third and last emperor of the Flavian dynasty, the house which ruled the Roman Empire between 69 and 96 and encompassed the reigns of Domitian's father Vespasian (69-79), his older brother Titus (79-81), and that of Domitian himself.
Damascus steel: Damascus steel is a hot-forged steel used in Middle Eastern swordmaking from about 1100 to 1700 AD. Damascus swords were of legendary sharpness and strength, and were apocryphally claimed to be able to cut through lesser quality swords and even rock. The technique used to create original Damascus steel is now a matter of historical conjecture. Many raw materials and the metalsmiths' recipes are no longer available.
Stab-in-the-back legend: The Stab-in-the-Back Legend was a popular, right-wing political legend of post-First World War Germany, which remained current until the eve of the Second World War. In attributing Imperial German loss of the war to the publics failure in answering their patriotic calling, and to the war effort-sabotage of the Socialists, the Bolsheviks, and the Jews, and not to the Reichsheers inability to engage battle, it exonerated the military of their defeat.
Stephen Donaldson activist: Stephen Donaldson (July 27, 1946 - July 18, 1996), born Robert Anthony Martin, Jr and also known by the pseudonym Donny the Punk, was an American bisexual-identified LGBT political activist. He is best known for his pioneering activism in gay liberation and prison reform, but also for his writing about punk rock and subculture.
Diffraction: Diffraction refers to various phenomena which occur when a wave encounters an obstacle. It is described as the apparent bending of waves around small obstacles and the spreading out of waves past small openings. Similar effects are observed when light waves travel through a medium with a varying refractive index or a sound wave through one with varying acoustic impedance.
Dolmen: A dolmen (also known as cromlech, anta, Hnengrab, Hunebed, Goindol, quoit, and portal dolmen) is a type of single-chamber megalithic tomb, usually consisting of three or more upright stones supporting a large flat horizontal capstone (table). Most date from the early Neolithic period (4000 to 3000 BC). Dolmens were usually covered with earth or smaller stones to form a barrow, though in many cases that covering has weathered away, leaving only the stone "skeleton" of the burial mound intact.
Diaspora: A diaspora (in Greek, - "a scattering ") is any movement of a population sharing common national and/or ethnic identity. While refugees may or may not ultimately settle in a new geographic location, the term diaspora refers to a permanently displaced and relocated collective.
Declination: In astronomy, declination (abbrev. dec or ) is one of the two coordinates of the equatorial coordinate system, the other being either right ascension or hour angle. Declination in astronomy is comparable to geographic latitude, but projected onto the celestial sphere. Declination is measured in degrees north and south of the celestial equator. Points north of the celestial equator have positive declinations, while those to the south have negative declinations.
Davenport Iowa: Davenport is a city located along the Mississippi River in Scott County, Iowa, United States. Davenport is the county seat of and largest city in Scott County. As of the 2000 census, the city had a population of 98,359. A 2008 estimate shows the population has increased slightly to 100,827 making it Iowa's third-largest city. Davenport is one of the Quad Cities, along with neighboring Bettendorf and the Illinois cities of Moline, East Moline, and Rock Island.
Daniel Jones phonetician: Daniel Jones (12 September 1881 - 4 December 1967) was a London-born British phonetician. A pupil of Paul Passy, professor of phonetics at the ole des Hautes udes at the Sorbonne, Daniel Jones is considered by many to be the greatest phonetician of the early 20th century.
Dianic Wicca: Dianic Wicca, also known as Dianic Witchcraft and Dianic Feminist Witchcraft, is a tradition, or denomination, of the neopagan religion of Wicca. It was founded by Zsuzsanna Budapest in the United States in the 1970s, and is notable for its focus on the worship of the Goddess, and on feminism. It combines elements of British Traditional Wicca, Italian folk-magic recorded in Charles Leland's Aradia, feminist values, and ritual, folk magic, and healing practices learned from her mother.
List of dog breeds: Dogs have been selectively bred for thousands of years, sometimes by inbreeding dogs from the same ancestral lines, sometimes by mixing dogs from very different lines. The process continues today, resulting in a wide variety of breeds, hybrids and types of dogs. Dogs are the only animal with such a wide variation in appearance without speciation, "from the Chihuahua to the Great Dane". The following list uses a wide interpretation of "breed".
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol: The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a computer networking protocol used by hosts (DHCP clients) to retrieve IP address assignments and other configuration information. DHCP uses a client-server architecture. The client sends a broadcast request for configuration information. The DHCP server receives the request and responds with configuration information from its configuration database.
Dava Sobel: Dava Sobel (born 1947) is a writer of popular expositions of scientific topics. She graduated from the Bronx High School of Science and Binghamton University.
David Beckham: David Robert Joseph Beckham, (born 2 May 1975) is an English footballer who currently plays in midfield for Milan in Serie A, on loan from Major League Soccer club Los Angeles Galaxy. He is also an established member of the England national team. Twice runner-up for FIFA World Player of the Year and in 2004 the world's highest-paid footballer, Beckham was the first British footballer to play 100 Champions League matches. He was Google's most searched of all sports topics in both 2003 and 2004.
Differential geometry: Differential geometry is a mathematical discipline that uses the methods of differential and integral calculus, as well as linear and multilinear algebra, to study problems in geometry. The theory of plane and space curves and of surfaces in the three-dimensional Euclidean space formed the basis for its initial development in the eighteenth and nineteenth century.
Dhole: The Dhole' (Cuon alpinus), also known as the Asiatic Wild Dog, Indian Wild Dog or Red Dog is an endangered species of Asian canid, and the only member of the genus Cuon. It once ranged across East and South Asia from Russia Far East to Sumatra. Their range is severely fragmented and reduced and there are little over 2,000 individuals left in the wild.
Dimmu Borgir: Dimmu Borgir (in English) is a Norwegian black metal band from Oslo, Norway, formed in 1993. Dimmu borgir means "dark cities" or "dark castles/fortresses" in Icelandic, Faroese and Old Norse. The name is derived from a volcanic formation in Iceland, Dimmuborgir. The band has been through numerous line-up changes over the years; guitarist Silenoz and vocalist Shagrath are the only founding members remaining.
Donald Rumsfeld: Donald Henry Rumsfeld (born July 9, 1932) is a United States businessman, retired Navy Fighter Pilot, diplomat, and politician who served as the 13th Secretary of Defense under President Gerald Ford from 1975 to 1977 and as the 21st Secretary of Defense under President George W. Bush from 2001 to 2006.
Druze: The Druze are a religious community found primarily in Syria, Lebanon, Israel/Palestine, and Jordan, whose traditional religion is said to have begun as an offshoot of Islam, but is unique in its incorporation of Gnosticism, Neoplatonism and other philosophies, similar to other followers of Ismaili Shi'a Islam. Theologically, Druze consider themselves "an Islamic Unist, reformatory sect".
Door: A door is a moveable barrier used to cover an opening. Doors are widely used and are found in walls or partitions of a building, vehicles, and furniture such as cupboards, cages, and containers. A door can be opened to give access and closed more or less securely using a combination of latches and locks.. Doors are nearly universal in buildings of all kinds, allowing passage between the inside and outside, and between internal rooms. When open, they admit ventilation and light.
Desmothoracid: The desmothoracids are a group of heliozoan protists, usually sessile and found in freshwater environments. Each adult is a spherical cell around 10-20 m in diameter surrounded by a perforated organic lorica or shell, with many radial pseudopods projecting through the holes to capture food. These are supported by small bundles of microtubules that arise near a point on the nuclear membrane.
Database normalization: In the field of relational database design, normalization is a systematic way of ensuring that a database structure is suitable for general-purpose querying and free of certain undesirable characteristicsinsertion, update, and deletion anomaliesthat could lead to a loss of data integrity. Edgar F. Codd, the inventor of the relational model, introduced the concept of normalization and what we now know as the First Normal Form in 1970.
Dalhousie University: Dalhousie University is a university located in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. As the largest post-secondary educational institution in the Maritime Provinces it offers a wide array of programs, including a medical program, the Schulich School of Law, and the separate Sexton Campus for architecture and engineering. The chancellor is Mr. Fred Fountain; Dr. Tom Traves serves as president and vice-chancellor. Dalhousie is consistently named among Canada's top research universities.
Declension: In linguistics, declension is the occurrence of inflection in nouns, pronouns and adjectives, indicating such features as number (typically singular vs. plural), case, gender, and possession. Declension occurs in a great many of the world's languages, and features very prominently in many European languages, but is much less prominent in English. English nouns decline only to distinguish singular from plural (e.g. , book vs.
Diego Garcia: Diego Garca is a coral atoll and the largest island in terms of land area, of the Chagos Archipelago. It is part of the British Indian Ocean Territory. The island is located in the Indian Ocean, about 1,600 km (1,000 mi) south of the southern coast of India. The closest other countries to Diego Garcia are Sri Lanka and Maldives.
List of football clubs in the Netherlands: The Dutch Football League is organized by the Koninklijke Nederlandse Voetbal Bond (KNVB, Royal Dutch Football Association). The most successful teams are Ajax (29 titles as of 2007), PSV (21) and Feyenoord (14). Important teams of the past are HVV (10 titles), Sparta (6 titles) and Willem II (3 titles). The annual match that marks the beginning of the season is called the Johan Cruijff Schaal (Johan Cruyff Shield). Contenders are the champions and the cup winners of the previous season.
Molecular diffusion: Molecular diffusion, often called simply diffusion, is a net transport of molecules from a region of higher concentration to one of lower concentration by random molecular motion. The result of diffusion is a gradual mixing of material. In a phase with uniform temperature, absent external net forces acting on the particles, the diffusion process will eventually result in complete mixing or a state of equilibrium. Molecular diffusion is typically described mathematically using Fick's laws.
Dragon 32/64: The Dragon 32 and Dragon 64 are home computers that were built in the 1980s. The Dragons are very similar to the TRS-80 Color Computer (CoCo), and were produced for the European market by Dragon Data, Ltd. , in Port Talbot, Wales. The model numbers reflect the primary difference between the two machines, which have 32 and 64 kilobytes of RAM, respectively.
Daffynition: A daffynition is a pun format involving the reinterpretation of an existing word, on the basis that it sounds like another word (or group of words). They are similar to transpositional puns, but often much less complex and easier to create. Some daffynitions may be puns. For example, "raisins are the wrath of grapes" is a play on the title of the book The Grapes of Wrath.
Dark matter: In astronomy and cosmology, dark matter is a form of matter that is undetectable by its emitted electromagnetic radiation, but whose presence can be inferred from gravitational effects on visible matter and background radiation. According to present observations of structures larger than galaxies, as well as Big Bang cosmology, dark matter currently accounts for 23% of the total mass-energy of the observable universe (while the ordinary matter accounts for 4.6% only).
Data General Nova: The Data General Nova was a popular 16-bit minicomputer built by the United States company Data General starting in 1969. The Nova was packaged into a single rack mount case and had enough power to do most simple computing tasks. The Nova became popular in science laboratories around the world, and eventually 50,000 units were sold. It was followed by the Data General Eclipse, which was similar in most ways but added virtual memory support and other features required by modern operating systems.
Ducati: Ducati Motor Holding S.p.A. is a privately owned Italian motorcycle manufacturer located in Bologna, Italy. Ducati has achieved prominence in the motorcycle industry and in motorcycle racing.
Protestant Church in the Netherlands: The Protestant Church in the Netherlands came into being on 1 May 2004 as a merger of the Dutch Reformed Church (Nederlandse Hervormde Kerk, NHK), the Reformed Churches in the Netherlands (Gereformeerde Kerken in Nederland, GKN) and the Evangelical Lutheran Church in the Kingdom of the Netherlands (Evangelisch-Lutherse Kerk in het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden). Since 1961 the churches have been going through an organizational process to this end.
Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit: Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit (14 May 1686 - 16 September 1736) was a German physicist and engineer who determined a temperature scale now named after him.
David Rice Atchison: David Rice Atchison (August 11, 1807 - January 26, 1886) was a mid-19th century Democratic United States Senator from Missouri. He served as President pro tempore of the United States Senate for six years. He is best known for the claim that for one day (March 4, 1849) he may have been Acting President of the United States.
Christian Church Disciples of Christ: The Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) is a Mainline Protestant denomination in North America. It is often referred to as The Christian Church, The Disciples of Christ, or more simply as The Disciples. The Christian Church was a charter participant in the formation of both the World Council of Churches and the Federal Council of Churches (now the National Council of Churches), and it continues to be engaged in ecumenical conversations.
Freescale DragonBall: Motorola/Freescale Semiconductor's DragonBall, or MC68328, is a microcontroller design based on the famous 68000 core, but implemented as an all-in-one low-power solution for handheld computer use. It was designed by Motorola in Hong Kong and released in 1995. The DragonBall's major design win was in earlier versions of the Palm Computing platform; however, from Palm OS 5 onwards it has been superseded by ARM-based processors from Texas Instruments and Intel.
Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications: Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications (DECT), known as Digital European Cordless Telephone until 1995, is an ETSI standard for digital portable phones (cordless home telephones), commonly used for domestic or corporate purposes. It is recognised by the ITU as fulfilling the IMT-2000 requirements and thus qualifies as a 3G system.
Dhy na: Dhyna in Sanskrit or jhna () in Pli generally refers to either meditation or meditative states. Equivalent terms are "Ch" in modern Chinese, "Zen" in Japanese, "Seon" in Korean, "Thien" in Vietnamese, and "Samten" in Tibetan.
Dan Bricklin: Daniel Singer "Dan" Bricklin (born 16 July 1951) is the American co-creator, with Bob Frankston, of the VisiCalc spreadsheet program. He also founded Software Garden, Inc. , of which he is currently president, and Trellix Corporation, which is currently owned by Web. com. Bricklin was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA, where he attended Akiba Hebrew Academy during his high school years. He received his B.S.
Data compression ratio: Data compression ratio, also known as compression power, is a computer-science term used to quantify the reduction in data-representation size produced by a data compression algorithm. The data compression ratio is analogous to the physical compression ratio used to measure physical compression of substances, and is defined in the same way, as the ratio between the compressed size and the uncompressed size:
Double-slit experiment: In quantum mechanics, the double-slit experiment (often referred to as Young's experiment) demonstrates the inseparability of the wave and particle natures of light and other quantum particles. A coherent light source illuminates a thin plate with two parallel slits cut in it, and the light passing through the slits strikes a screen behind them.
Disc jockey: A disc jockey (also known as DJ or deejay) is a person who selects and plays recorded music for an audience. Originally, disk referred to phonograph records, while disc referred to the Compact Disc, and has become the more common spelling. Today, the term includes all forms of music playback, no matter the source. There are several types of disc jockeys. Radio DJs introduce and play music that is broadcast on AM, FM, shortwave, digital, or internet radio stations.
Donn: According to Irish mythology, Donn, or the Dark One, is the Lord of the Dead and father of Diarmuid Ua Duibhne, whom he gave to Aengus to be nurtured. Donn is regarded as the father of the Irish race; a position similar to that of Dis Pater and the Gauls, as noted by Julius Caesar. Originally, Donn was the chief of the Sons of Mil, a mythological race who invaded Ireland, ousting the Tuatha D Danann.
Deccan Traps: The Deccan Traps are a large igneous province located on the Deccan Plateau of west-central India (between 17-24N, 73-74E) and one of the largest volcanic features on Earth. They consist of multiple layers of solidified flood basalt that together are more than 2,000 m (6,562 ft) thick and cover an area of 500,000 km (193,051 sq mi).
Divination: Divination (from Latin divinare "to foresee, to be inspired by a god", related to divinus, divine) is the attempt to gain insight into a question or situation by way of a standardized process or ritual. Diviners ascertain their interpretations of how a querent should proceed by reading signs, events, or omens, or through alleged contact with a supernatural agency.
Detroit: Detroit is the largest city in the U.S. state of Michigan and the seat of Wayne County. Detroit is a major port city on the Detroit River, in the Midwest region of the United States. Located north of Windsor, Ontario, Detroit is the only major U.S. city that looks south to Canada. It was founded on July 24, 1701, by the Frenchman Antoine de la Mothe Cadillac. Its name originates from the French word droit for strait, characterizing its location on the river connecting the Great Lakes.
Diet of Nuremberg: The Diet of Nuremberg is often called the Imperial Diet at Nuremberg. There were several of them because, according to the Golden Bull of 1356, each Holy Roman Emperor had to hold his first diet in Nuremberg after his election. There were also a number of other diets held. 1211 elected the future emperor Frederick II of Hohenstaufen German king. 1356 Charles IV issued his Golden Bull - regulating the election of Holy Roman Emperors.
Dr. Strangelove: Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb (commonly known as Dr. Strangelove) is a 1964 black comedy film directed by Stanley Kubrick, starring Peter Sellers and George C. Scott, and featuring Sterling Hayden, Keenan Wynn, Slim Pickens and Tracy Reed. Loosely based on Peter George's Cold War thriller novel Red Alert (aka Two Hours to Doom), Dr. Strangelove satirized the nuclear scare.
DNA ligase: In molecular biology, DNA ligase is a special type of ligase that can link together two DNA strands that have double-strand break (a break in both complementary strands of DNA). The alternative, a single-strand break, is fixed by a different type of DNA ligase using the complementary strand as a template but still requires DNA ligase to create the final phosphodiester bond to fully repair the DNA. DNA ligase has applications in both DNA repair and DNA replication.
Dewey Decimal Classification: The Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC, also called the Dewey Decimal System) is a proprietary system of library classification developed by Melvil Dewey in 1876; it has been greatly modified and expanded through 22 major revisions, the most recent in 2003. This system organizes books on library shelves in a specific and repeatable order that makes it easy to find any book and return it to its proper place. The system is used in 200,000 libraries in at least 135 countries.
Don't ask don't tell: Don't ask, don't tell (DADT) is the common term for the policy restricting the United States military from efforts to discover or reveal closeted gay, lesbian, and bisexual service members or applicants, while barring those that are openly gay, lesbian, or bisexual from military service. The restrictions are mandated by federal law Pub.L. 103-160. Unless one of the exceptions from 10 U.S.C.
Dukkha: Dukkha (Pli ; Sanskrit dukha; according to grammatical tradition derived from dus-kha "uneasy", but according to Monier-Williams more likely a Prakritized form of dus-stha "unsteady, disquieted") is a Pali term roughly corresponding to a number of terms in English including suffering, pain, unsatisfactoriness, sorrow, affliction, anxiety, dissatisfaction, discomfort, anguish, stress, misery, and frustration.
Outline of dance: Dance generally refers to human movement either used as a form of expression or presented in a social, spiritual or performance setting. Choreography is the art of making dances, and the person who does this is called a choreographer. Definitions of what constitutes dance are dependent on social, cultural, aesthetic, artistic and moral constraints and range from functional movement to codified, virtuoso techniques such as ballet.
Darwin Awards: A Darwin Award is a tongue-in-cheek honor named after evolutionary theorist Charles Darwin. Awards have been given for people who "do a service to Humanity by removing themselves from the gene pool" (i.e. lose the ability to reproduce either by death or sterilization in a stupid fashion).
Doctor Syn: The Reverend Doctor Christopher Syn is the smuggler hero of a series of novels by Russell Thorndike. The first book, Doctor Syn: A Tale of the Romney Marsh was published in 1915. The story idea came from smuggling in the 18th century Romney Marsh, where brandy and tobacco were brought in at night by boat from France to avoid high tax.
Dampf-Kraft-Wagen: Dampf-Kraft-Wagen or DKW is an historic car and motorcycle marque. In 1916, the Danish engineer Jgen Skafte Rasmussen founded a factory in Saxony, Germany, to produce steam fittings. In the same year, he attempted to produce a steam-driven car, called the DKW. Although unsuccessful, he made a two-stroke toy engine in 1919, called Des Knaben Wunsch - "the boy's desire".
Taiko: Taiko means "drum" in Japanese (etymologically "great" or "wide drum"). Outside Japan, the word is often used to refer to any of the various Japanese drums (, 'wa-daiko', "Japanese drum", in Japanese) and to the relatively recent art-form of ensemble taiko drumming (sometimes called more specifically, "kumi-daiko").
Dhrystone: Dhrystone is a synthetic computing benchmark program developed in 1984 by Reinhold P. Weicker intended to be representative of system (integer) programming. The Dhrystone grew to become representative of general processor performance until it was superseded by the CPU89 benchmark suite from the Standard Performance Evaluation Corporation, today known as the "SPECint" suite. The name is a pun on a different benchmark algorithm called Whetstone.
Dave Winer: Dave Winer is an American software developer, entrepreneur and writer in Berkeley, California. A pioneer in the areas of outliners, content management, XML-RPC, RSS, OPML, and the MetaWeblog API, he is also noted for his contribution to podcasting. Winer is the author of Scripting News, one of the oldest weblogs, established in 1997. ".. Dave Winer... whose Scripting News (scripting. com) is one of the oldest blogs.
Dolly Parton: Dolly Rebecca Parton (born January 19, 1946) is an American singer-songwriter, author, multi-instrumentalist, actress and philanthropist, best-known for her work in country music. In the four-and-a-half decades since her national-chart dut, she remains one of the most-successful female artists in the history of the country genre which garnered her the title of 'The Queen of Country Music', with twenty-five number-one singles, and a record forty-one top-10 country albums.
Diprotodon: Diprotodon or Giant Wombat or Rhinoceros Wombat was the largest known marsupial that ever lived. It, along with many other members of a group of unusual species collectively called the Australian megafauna, existed from 1.6 million years ago until about 40,000 years ago (through most of the Pleistocene epoch). Diprotodon spp. fossils have been found in many places across Australia, including complete skulls and skeletons, as well as hair and foot impressions.
Doppler effect: The Doppler effect (or Doppler shift), named after Austrian physicist Christian Doppler who proposed it in 1842, is the change in frequency of a wave for an observer moving relative to the source of the wave. It is commonly heard when a vehicle sounding a siren or horn approaches, passes, and recedes from an observer. The received frequency is higher (compared to the emitted frequency) during the approach, it is identical at the instant of passing by, and it is lower during the recession.
 T: T, Delta T, delta-T, deltaT, or DT is the time difference obtained by subtracting Universal Time from Terrestrial Time. Universal Time (UT) is a time scale based on the Earth's rotation, which is somewhat irregular over short periods (days up to a century), thus any time based on it cannot have an accuracy better than 1: 10. But the principal effect is over the long term: over many centuries tidal friction inexorably slows Earth's rate of rotation by about 2.3 ms/day/cy.
Dirk Benedict: Dirk Benedict (born Dirk Niewoehner on March 1, 1945) is an American movie, television and stage actor, perhaps best known for playing the characters Lieutenant Templeton "Faceman" Peck in The A-Team television series and Lieutenant Starbuck in the original Battlestar Galactica film and television series. He was born in Helena, Montana, and grew up in White Sulphur Springs, Montana.
Director's cut: A director's cut is a specially edited version of a film, and less often TV series, music video, commercials, comic book or video games, that is supposed to represent the director's own approved edit. 'Cut' explicitly refers to the process of film editing: the director's cut is preceded by the rough editor's cut and followed by the final cut meant for the public film release.
Volkssturm: The Volkssturm (lit. "folk storm", "people's assault"; "People's" or "National Militia") was a German national militia of the last months of World War II. It was founded on Adolf Hitler's orders on October 18, 1944 and conscripted males between the ages of 16 to 60 years who were not already serving in some military unit as part of a German Home Guard.
David Deutsch: David Elieser Deutsch FRS is a physicist at the University of Oxford. He is a non-stipendiary Visiting Professor in the Department of Atomic and Laser Physics at the Centre for Quantum Computation, Clarendon Laboratory. He pioneered the field of quantum computers by being the first person to formulate a specifically quantum computational algorithm, and is a proponent of the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics.
Digital video: Digital video is a type of video recording system that works by using a digital rather than an analog video signal. The terms camera, video camera, and camcorder are used interchangeably in this article.
BIND: BIND, for Berkeley Internet Name Domain, or named, is the most commonly used Domain Name System (DNS) server on the Internet. On Unix-like systems it is the de facto standard. BIND was originally created by four graduate students at the Computer Systems Research Group at the University of California, Berkeley, and was first released with 4.3BSD. Paul Vixie started maintaining it in 1988 while working for DEC. Today, BIND is maintained by the Internet Systems Consortium.
Dylan programming language: The Dylan programming language is a multi-paradigm language that includes support for functional and object-oriented programming, and is dynamic and reflective while providing a programming model designed to support efficient machine code generation, including fine-grained control over dynamic and static behaviors. It was created in the early 1990s by a group led by Apple Computer. Dylan is pronounced /ln/ ("dill-un"), like the surname of Bob Dylan.
Dublin Core: The Dublin Core metadata element set is a standard in the fields of library and computer science. It is intended to be used for cross-domain information resource description. It defines conventions for describing things online in ways that make them easy to find. Dublin Core is widely used to describe digital materials such as video, sound, image, text, and composite media like web pages. Implementations of Dublin Core typically make use of XML and are Resource Description Framework based.
Djbdns: The djbdns software package is a DNS implementation created by Daniel J. Bernstein due to his frustrations with repeated BIND security holes. A $1000 prize for the first person to find a privilege escalation security hole in djbdns was awarded in March 2009 to Matthew Dempsky. As of 2004, djbdns's tinydns component was the second most popular DNS server.
Document Object Model: The Document Object Model (DOM) is a cross-platform and language-independent convention for representing and interacting with objects in HTML, XHTML and XML documents. Aspects of the DOM (such as its "Elements") may be addressed and manipulated within the syntax of the programming language in use. The public interface of a DOM are specified in its Application Programming Interface (API).
Design pattern: A design pattern in architecture and computer science is a formal way of documenting a solution to a design problem in a particular field of expertise. The idea was introduced by the architect Christopher Alexander in the field of architecture and has been adapted for various other disciplines, including computer science. An organized collection of design patterns that relate to a particular field is called a pattern language.
Dimethyltryptamine: Dimethyltryptamine or N,N-Dimethyltryptamine (DMT) is a naturally-occurring tryptamine and psychedelic drug, found not only in many plants, but also in trace amounts in the human body where its natural function is undetermined. Structurally, it is analogous to the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT) and other psychedelic tryptamines such as 5-MeO-DMT, bufotenin (5-OH-DMT), and psilocin (4-OH-DMT).
Da capo: Da Capo is a musical term in Italian, meaning from the beginning (literally from the head). It is often abbreviated D.C.. It is a composer or publisher's directive to repeat the previous part of music. In small pieces this might be the same thing as a repeat, but in larger works D.C. might occur after one or more repeats of small sections, indicating a return to the very beginning. The resulting structure of the piece is generally in ternary form.
Flag of Denmark: The national flag of Denmark, Dannebrog, is red with a white Scandinavian cross that extends to the edges of the flag; the vertical part of the cross is shifted to the hoist side. The cross design of the Danish flag was subsequently adopted by the other Nordic countries; Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland and the Faroe Islands, as well as the non-Nordic Scottish regions of Shetland and Orkney.
Dominatrix: A dominatrix (plural dominatrices or dominatrixes) or mistress is a woman who takes the dominant role in bondage and discipline, dominance and submission or BDSM. A common form of address for a submissive to a dominatrix is "mistress", "ma'am", "domina" or "matresse". Note that a dominatrix does not necessarily dominate a male partner; a dominatrix may well have female submissives. The term "domme" is a coined pseudo-French female variation of the slang dom (short for dominant).
Daniel Dennett: Daniel Clement Dennett is an American philosopher whose research centers on the philosophy of mind, philosophy of science and philosophy of biology, particularly as those fields relate to evolutionary biology and cognitive science. He is currently the co-director of the Center for Cognitive Studies, the Austin B. Fletcher Professor of Philosophy, and a University Professor at Tufts University.
Douglas Hofstadter: Douglas Richard Hofstadter (born February 15, 1945 in New York, New York) is an American academic whose research focuses on consciousness, thinking and creativity. He is best known for his book Gel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid, first published in 1979, for which he was awarded the 1980 Pulitzer Prize for general non-fiction.
Darwin's Dangerous Idea: Darwin's Dangerous Idea: Evolution and the Meanings of Life is a book by Daniel Dennett which argues that Darwinian processes are the central organizing force that gives rise to complexity. Dennett asserts that natural selection is a blind and algorithmic process which is sufficiently powerful to account for the generation and evolution of life including the ins and outs of human minds and societies.
Dragoon: The word Dragoon originally meant mounted infantry, who were trained in horse riding as well as infantry fighting skills. However, usage altered over time and during the 18th century, dragoons evolved into conventional light cavalry units and personnel. Dragoon regiments were established in most European armies during the late 17th and early 18th centuries. The name is possibly derived from a type of firearm (called a dragon) carried by dragoons of the French Army.
Dulcimer: Dulcimer may refer to two types of musical instruments: Appalachian dulcimer, a fretted, plucked musical instrument which is also referred to as a "mountain dulcimer," "lap dulcimer" "hog fiddle," or just a "dulcimer" Hammered dulcimer, a hammer-struck, trapezoid-shaped musical instrument Books The Dulcimer; or, The New York Collection of Sacred Music, a popular 19th century collection of Christian hymns, compiled by Isaac B. Woodbury iPod, the iPod was created under the codename of Dulcimer
Dahomey: Dahomey was the name of a country in west Africa now called the Republic of Benin. The Kingdom of Dahomey was a powerful west African state founded in the seventeenth century which survived until 1894. From 1894 until 1960 Dahomey was a part of French West Africa. The independent Republic of Dahomey existed from 1960-1975.
Dharma: The term dharma is an Indian spiritual and religious term that means one's righteous duty, or any virtuous path. A Hindu's dharma is affected by a person's age, class, occupation, and gender. In Indian languages it can be equivalent simply to religion, depending on context. The word dharma translates as that which upholds or supports, and is generally translated into English as law.
Dioula language: Dioula (Dyula) is a Mande language spoken in Burkina Faso and Ce d'Ivoire. It is one of the Manding languages, and is most closely related to Bambara (in a manner similar to the relation between American English and British English). It is probably the most used language for trade in West Africa. Dioula language and people are distinct from the Diola (Jola) people of Guinea-Bissau and Casamance.
Dutch West India Company: Dutch West India Company was a chartered company of Dutch merchants. Among its founding fathers was Willem Usselincx (1567-1647?). On June 3, 1621, it was granted a for a trade monopoly in the West Indies (meaning the Caribbean) by the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands and given jurisdiction over the African slave trade, Brazil, the Caribbean, and North America.
Desi Arnaz: Desi Arnaz (March 2, 1917 - December 2, 1986) was a Cuban-born American musician, actor and television producer. He gained international renown for leading a Latin music band, the Desi Arnaz Orchestra. He is best known for his role as Ricky Ricardo on the classic American TV series I Love Lucy, starring with Lucille Ball, to whom he was married at the time.
DNA virus: A DNA virus is a virus that has DNA as its genetic material and replicates using a DNA-dependent DNA polymerase. The nucleic acid is usually double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) but may also be single-stranded DNA (ssDNA). DNA viruses belong to either Group I or Group II of the Baltimore classification system for viruses. Single-stranded DNA is usually expanded to double-stranded in infected cells.
Daniel Ortega: Jos Daniel Ortega Saavedra (born 11 November 1945) is the current (83rd) President of Nicaragua, having served since 10 January 2007. He previously served as the 79th President, between 10 January 1985 and 25 April 1990. For much of his life, he has been a leader in the Sandinista National Liberation Front (Frente Sandinista de Liberaci Nacional or FSLN).
Debian GNU/Hurd: Debian GNU/Hurd is the Debian project's distribution of the GNU operating system.
Destroyer: In naval terminology, a destroyer is a fast and maneuverable yet long-endurance warship intended to escort larger vessels in a fleet, convoy or battle group and defend them against smaller, short-range but powerful attackers. Before World War II, destroyers were light vessels without the endurance for unattended ocean operations; typically a number of destroyers and a single destroyer tender operated together.
Dorothy Parker: Dorothy Parker (August 22, 1893 - June 7, 1967) was an American writer and poet, best known for her wit, wisecracks, and sharp eye for 20th century urban foibles. From a conflicted and unhappy childhood, Parker rose to acclaim, both for her literary output in such venues as The New Yorker and as a founding member of the Algonquin Round Table. Following the breakup of that circle, Parker traveled to Hollywood to pursue screenwriting.
Dylan Thomas: Dylan Marlais Thomas (27 October 1914 - 9 November 1953) was a Welsh poet and writer who wrote exclusively in English. In addition to poetry, he wrote short stories and scripts for film and radio, which he often performed himself. His public readings, particularly in America, won him great acclaim; his sonorous voice with a subtle Welsh lilt became almost as famous as his works.
Fern Hill: Fern Hill (1946) is a poem by Dylan Thomas- the last poem included in his book Deaths and Entrances. The poem starts as a straightforward evocation of his youthful visits to his aunts: Now as I was young and easy under the apple boughs About the lilting house and happy as the grass was green, In the middle section, the idyllic scene is expanded upon, reinforced by the lilting rhythm of the poem, the dreamlike, pastoral metaphors and allusion to scenes from the Garden of Eden.
Daisy cutter: Daisy Cutter may mean: Daisy cutter (fuse), a type of fuse A type of bomb, the BLU-82 A ball ineptly bowled close to the ground in cricket A seldom used term for a sharply struck ground ball in baseball, used mostly in Vintage base ball. See also daisy cutter. The second studio album by the Rockville, Maryland band The Low Life The sixth song on 311's ninth studio album Uplifter. A fiercely struck and out-swinging ball in football. A person with negative energy that spoils the fun of others.
Dennis Hopper: Dennis Lee Hopper (born May 17, 1936) is an American actor, filmmaker and artist. Hopper became interested in acting and eventually became a student of the Actors Studio. He made his first television appearance in 1955, and appeared in two films featuring James Dean, Rebel Without a Cause (1955) and Giant (1956). Over the next ten years, Hopper appeared frequently on television in guest roles, and by the end of the 1960s had played supporting roles in several films.
David Bowie: David Bowie (born David Robert Hayward-Jones, 8 January 1947) is an English musician, actor, record producer and arranger. Active in five decades of popular music and frequently reinventing his music and image, Bowie is widely regarded as an innovator, particularly for his work in the 1970s. He has been cited as an influence by many musicians and is known for his distinctive voice and the intellectual depth of his work.
Demiurge: The demiurge is a concept from the Platonic, Middle Platonic, and Neoplatonic schools of philosophy for an artisan-like figure responsible for the fashioning and maintenance of the physical universe. The term was subsequently adopted by the Gnostics, albeit with a different meaning.
Detroit Red Wings: The Detroit Red Wings are a professional ice hockey team based in Detroit, Michigan. They are members of the Central Division of the Western Conference of the National Hockey League (NHL), and are one of the Original Six teams of the NHL. The Red Wings are one of the most popular hockey franchises in North America, so much that fans and analysts have nicknamed Detroit "Hockeytown.
Dobrawa of Bohemia: Dobrawa (Dbrka), was a Bohemian princess member of the Pemyslid dynasty and by marriage Duchess of the Polans. She was the daughter of Boleslav I the Cruel, Duke of Bohemia, by his wife Biagota. According to earlier sources she urged her husband to accept the baptism in 966.
D. B. Cooper: D. B. Cooper is the name attributed to a man who hijacked a Boeing 727 aircraft in the United States on November 24, 1971, received US$200,000 in ransom, and parachuted from the plane. The name he used to board the plane was Dan Cooper, but through a later press miscommunication, he became known as "D. B. Cooper".
Distributism: Distributism, also known as distributionism and distributivism, is a third-way economic philosophy formulated by such Roman Catholic thinkers as G. K.
Dehydroepiandrosterone: 5-Dehydroepiandrosterone (5-DHEA) is an endogenous steroid that has been implicated in a broad range of biological effects in humans and other mammals. Together with its sulfate ester, it is the most abundant steroid in humans. DHEA is produced by adrenal glands, but also synthesized de novo in the brain.
Dual polyhedron: In geometry, polyhedra are associated into pairs called duals, where the of one correspond to the faces of the other. The dual of the dual is the original polyhedron. The dual of a polyhedron with equivalent vertices is one with equivalent faces, and of one with equivalent edges is another with equivalent edges. So the regular polyhedra - the Platonic solids and Kepler-Poinsot polyhedra - are arranged into dual pairs, with the exception of the regular tetrahedron which is self-dual.
Discrete Fourier transform: In mathematics, the discrete Fourier transform (DFT) is a specific kind of Fourier transform, used in Fourier analysis. It transforms one function into another, which is called the frequency domain representation, or simply the DFT, of the original function (which is often a function in the time domain). But the DFT requires an input function that is discrete and whose non-zero values have a limited (finite) duration.
Deicide band: Deicide is an American death metal band formed in 1987. Their first two albums, Deicide and Legion, are ranked second and third place in best-selling death metal albums of the SoundScan era. The band has been the source of a considerable amount of controversy for their vehement anti-Christian content, resulting in accusations of having caused violence, animal cruelty, and beliefs in demonic possession among youths.
Double bass: The double bass, also called the string bass, upright bass, or contrabass, is the largest and lowest-pitched bowed string instrument in the modern symphony orchestra. The name, "double bass," derives from the early use of the instrument to double- an octave lower where possible- the bass part written for the cello. It is a standard member of the string section of the symphony orchestra and smaller string ensembles in Western classical music.
Division of labour: Division of labour (division of labor, in American English) or economic specialization is the specialization of cooperative labour in specific, circumscribed tasks and roles, intended to increase the productivity of labour. Historically an increasingly complex division of labour is closely associated with the growth of total output and trade, the rise of capitalism, and of the complexity of industrialisation processes.
Davy lamp: The Davy lamp is a safety lamp with a wick and oil vessel burning originally a heavy vegetable oil, devised in 1815 by Sir Humphry Davy. It was created for use in coal mines, allowing deep seams to be mined despite the presence of methane and other flammable gases, called firedamp or minedamp. Davy had discovered that a flame enclosed inside a mesh of a certain fineness cannot ignite firedamp.
Docklands Light Railway: The Docklands Light Railway is a light metro or light rail system opened on 31 August 1987 to serve the redeveloped Docklands area of East London, England. It covers several areas of London, reaching north to Stratford, south to Lewisham, west to Tower Gateway and Bank in the City of London financial district, and east to Beckton, London City Airport and Woolwich Arsenal.
Dundee: Dundee is the fourth-largest city in Scotland and, fully named as Dundee City, one of Scotland's 32 local government council areas. It lies on the north bank of the Firth of Tay, which feeds into the North Sea. Evidence suggests Dundee has been continuously occupied since the Mesolithic. The town developed into a burgh in Medieval times, and expanded rapidly in the 19th century largely due to the jute industry.
Donald Dewar: Donald Campbell Dewar (21 August 1937 - 11 October 2000) was a Scottish Labour politician, and the first holder of the office of First Minister of Scotland, from the establishment of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 until his death. He was also a UK MP and Secretary of State for Scotland for several years.
Do Not Adjust Your Set: Do Not Adjust Your Set (DNAYS) was a children's television series produced originally by Rediffusion, London, then by the fledgling Thames Television for British commercial television channel ITV from 26 December 1967 to 14 May 1969. The show took its name from the message (frequently seen on the TV screen in those days) which was displayed when there was a problem with transmission.
West Memphis 3: The West Memphis 3 is the name given to three teenagers who were tried and convicted of the murders of three children in the Robin Hood Hills area of West Memphis, Arkansas, United States in 1993. Damien Echols was sentenced to death. Jessie Misskelley, Jr. , was sentenced to life in prison, plus 40 years (he received two 20-year sentences in addition to the life sentence). Jason Baldwin was sentenced to life imprisonment. The case has received considerable attention.
David Beatty 1st Earl Beatty: Admiral of the Fleet David Richard Beatty, 1st Earl Beatty, GCB, OM, GCVO, DSO (17 January 1871 - 11 March 1936) was an admiral in the Royal Navy. Achieving career success at an early age, he commanded the British battlecruisers at the Battle of Jutland in 1916, a tactically indecisive engagement after which his aggressive approach was contrasted with the caution of his commander Admiral Jellicoe.
London Docklands: Docklands is the semi-official name for an area in East and South East London, boroughs. The docks were formerly part of the Port of London, at one time the world's largest port. They have now been redeveloped principally for commercial and residential use. The name London Docklands was used for the first time in a government report on redevelopment plans in 1971 but has since become virtually universally adopted.
Digimon: Digimon, short for "Digital Monsters", is a media franchise encompassing anime, manga, toys, video games, trading card games and other media. The franchise's eponymous creatures are monsters of various forms living in a "Digital World", a parallel universe that originated from Earth's various communication networks.
Dictum of Kenilworth: The Dictum of Kenilworth, issued 31 October 1266, was a pronouncement designed to reconcile the rebels of the Barons' War with the royal government of England. After the baronial victory at the Battle of Lewes in 1264, Simon de Montfort took control of royal government, but at the Battle of Evesham the next year Montfort was killed, and King Henry III restored to power. A group of rebels held out in the stronghold of Kenilworth Castle, however, and their resistance proved hard to crush.
Diesel multiple unit: A diesel multiple unit or DMU is a multiple unit train consisting of multiple carriages powered by one or more on-board diesel engines. They may also be referred to as a railcar or railmotor, depending on country.
Digital cinema: Digital cinema refers to the use of digital technology to distribute and project motion pictures. A movie can be distributed via hard drives, optical disks or satellite and projected using a digital projector instead of a conventional film projector. Digital cinema is distinct from high-definition television and in particular, is not dependent on using television or HDTV standards, aspect ratios, or frame rates.
Democratic Progressive Party: The Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) is a major political party in the Republic of China, commonly known as Taiwan. It is the dominant party in the Pan-Green Coalition. It has traditionally been associated with strong advocacy of human rights and a distinct Taiwanese identity, including promotion of de jure Taiwan independence. Its present chair is Tsai Ing-wen. The DPP is a member of Liberal International and a founding member of the Council of Asian Liberals and Democrats.
Datura: Datura is a genus of nine species of vespertine flowering plants belonging to the family Solanaceae. Its precise and natural distribution is uncertain, owing to its extensive cultivation and naturalization throughout the temperate and tropical regions of the globe. Its distribution within the Americas, however, is most likely restricted to the United States and Mexico, where the highest species diversity occurs.
Commutator subgroup: In mathematics, more specifically in abstract algebra, the commutator subgroup or derived subgroup of a group is the subgroup generated by all the commutators of the group. The commutator subgroup is important because it is the smallest normal subgroup such that the quotient group of the original group by this subgroup is abelian. In other words, if G/N is abelian, N contains the commutator subgroup.
Donald A. Wollheim: Donald Allen Wollheim (1 October 1914 - 2 November 1990) was an American science fiction writer, editor, publisher and fan. As an author, he published under his own name as well as under pseudonyms, including David Grinnell. A founding member of the Futurians, he was one of the leading influences on the development of science fiction and science fiction fandom in the 20th century United States.
December 21: December 21 is the 355th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar. There are 10 days remaining until the end of the year. This is a frequent day for the winter solstice to occur in the northern hemisphere and summer solstice to occur in the southern hemisphere.
Digital compositing: Digital compositing is the process of digitally assembling multiple images to make a final image, typically for print, motion pictures or screen display. It is the evolution into the digital realm of optical film compositing.
Dr. Seuss: Theodor Seuss Geisel (March 2, 1904 - September 24, 1991) was an American writer and cartoonist most widely known for his children's books written under the pen name Dr. Seuss. He published over 60 children's books, which were often characterized by imaginative characters, rhyme, and frequent use of trisyllabic meter. His most celebrated books include the bestselling Green Eggs and Ham, The Cat in the Hat, and One Fish Two Fish Red Fish Blue Fish.
Dandy: A dandy (also known as a beau, or gallant) is a man who places particular importance upon physical appearance, refined language, and leisurely hobbies, pursued with the appearance of nonchalance in a cult of Self. Historically, especially in late 18th- and early 19th-century Britain, a dandy, who was self-made, often strove to imitate an aristocratic style of life despite coming from a middle-class background.
Dubbing filmmaking: Dubbing is the post-production process of recording and replacing voices on a motion picture or television soundtrack subsequent to the original shooting schedule. The term most commonly refers to the substitution of the voices of the actors shown on the screen by those of different performers, who may be speaking a different language.
Delaunay triangulation: In mathematics, and computational geometry, a Delaunay triangulation for a set P of points in the plane is a triangulation DT(P) such that no point in P is inside the circumcircle of any triangle in DT(P). Delaunay triangulations maximize the minimum angle of all the angles of the triangles in the triangulation; they tend to avoid skinny triangles. The triangulation was invented by Boris Delaunay in 1934 .
Defendant: A defendant or defender is any party who is required to answer the complaint of a plaintiff or pursuer in a civil lawsuit before a court, or any party who has been formally charged or accused of violating a criminal statute. (Note that American lawyers and judges often pronounce the word slightly differently than is common in standard American English, pronouncing the final syllable exactly as one pronounces ant---the name of an insect---in this pronunciation scheme.
Domitius Afer: Gnaeus Domitius Afer (died 59) was a Roman orator and advocate, born at Nemausus in Gallia Narbonensis. He flourished in the reigns of Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius and Nero. He became praetor in 25 AD, and gained the favor of Tiberius by accusing Claudia Pulchra, the second cousin of Agrippina, of adultery and the use of magic arts against the emperor, in 26 AD.
Dan Simmons: Dan Simmons is an American author most widely known for his Hugo Award-winning science fiction series, known as the Hyperion Cantos, and for his Locus-winning Ilium/Olympos cycle. He spans genres such as science fiction, horror and fantasy, sometimes within the same novel: a typical example of Simmons' ability to intermingle genres is Song of Kali (1985), winner of World Fantasy Award.
Dione: Dione may refer to:
Denis Auguste Affre: Denis-Auguste Affre (27 September 1793 - 27 June 1848), archbishop of Paris, was born at Saint-Rome-de-Tarn, in the department of Aveyron. He was educated for the priesthood at Saint-Sulpice, where in 1818 he became professor of dogmatic theology. After filling a number of ecclesiastical offices, he was elevated to the archbishopric of Paris in 1840. Though opposed to the government of Louis-Philippe, he took no part in politics, but devoted himself to his pastoral work.
Denis Leary: Denis Colin Leary (born August 18, 1957) is an American actor, comedian, writer, and director. He is known for his often biting comedic style and his chain smoking. Leary is the star and co-creator of the television show Rescue Me now in its fifth season.
Recreational use of dextromethorphan: Dextromethorphan (DXM), an active ingredient found in many cough suppressant cold medicines, is commonly used as a recreational drug. While having almost no psychoactive effects at medically-recommended doses, dextromethorphan has euphoric, psychedelic, and dissociative properties when administered in doses well above those which are considered therapeutic medically for cough suppression.
Dryope: In Greek mythology, Dryope () was the daughter of Dryops ("oak-man") or of Eurytus (and hence half-sister to Iole). She was sometimes thought of as one of the Pleiades (and hence a nymph). There are two stories of her metamorphosis into a black poplar. According to the first, Apollo seduced her by a trick. Dryope had been accustomed to play with the hamadryads of the woods on Mount Oeta.
Doctor title: Doctor, as a title, originates from the Latin word which means teacher. The word is originally an agentive noun of the verb docre ('to teach'). It has been used as an honored academic title for over a millennium in Europe, where it dates back to the rise of the university. This use spread to the Americas, former European colonies, and is now prevalent in most of the world. Abbreviated "Dr" or "Dr. ", it is used as a designation for a person who has obtained a doctorate-level degree.
Domnall mac Ailp n: Domnall mac Ailpn (Modern Gaelic: Dhnall mac Ailpein, anglicised sometimes as Donald MacAlpin, and known in most modern regnal lists as Donald I; was king of the Picts from 858 to 862. He followed his brother Kenneth I to the Pictish throne. The Chronicle of the Kings of Alba says that Domnall reigned for four years, matching the notices in the Annals of Ulster of his brother's death in February 858 and his own in April 862.
Danse Macabre: Dance of Death, also variously called Danse Macabre (French), Danza Macabra (Italian and Spanish), Dan da Morte (Portuguese), or Totentanz (German), is a late-medieval allegory on the universality of death: no matter one's station in life, the dance of death unites all. La Danse Macabre consists of the personified death leading a row of dancing figures from all walks of life to the grave, typically with an emperor, king, youngster, and beautiful girlall skeletal.
David Abercromby: David Abercromby was a 17th-century Scottish physician and writer, thought to have died in 1702. Brought up at Douai as a Roman Catholic by Jesuit priests, he was converted to Protestantism in 1682 and came to abjure popery, and published Protestancy proved Safer than Popery (1686).
Direct product: In mathematics, one can often define a direct product of objects already known, giving a new one. This is generally the Cartesian product of the underlying sets, together with a suitably defined structure on the product set. More abstractly, one talks about the product in category theory, which formalizes these notions. Examples are the product of sets, groups (described below), the product of rings and of other algebraic structures. The product of topological spaces is another instance.
Deconstruction: Deconstruction is an approach, introduced by French philosopher Jacques Derrida, which rigorously pursues the meaning of a text to the point of undoing the oppositions on which it is apparently founded, and to the point of showing that those foundations are irreducibly complex, unstable or impossible. It is an approach that may be deployed in philosophy, in literary analysis, in other fields, or in a way that transcends the boundaries of such fields.
Dionysius Thrax: Dionysius Thrax ( ) (170 BC90 BC) was a Hellenistic grammarian and a pupil of Aristarchus of Samothrace. His place of origin was not Thrace as the epithet Thrax denotes, but probably Alexandria. He lived and worked in this city but later taught at Rhodes (around 144BC).
Despina: Despina is a given name for girls, meaning 'lady' in Greek. It may refer to: Despina Delios Despina Pavlou Despina Vandi It may also refer to: Despoina, a figure in Greek mythology Maria Despina Despina (moon), a moon of Neptune Despina, a character in Mozart's opera Cosi fan tutte "Despoina", a song by Nikos Karvelas
D j vu: D vu ("already seen"; also called paramnesia, from Greek "para," "near, against, contrary to" + "mnm," "memory") or promnesia, is the experience of feeling sure that one has witnessed or experienced a new situation previously (an individual feels as though an event has already happened or has happened in the recent past), although the exact circumstances of the previous encounter are uncertain.
Discrimination: Discrimination is a sociological term referring to the treatment taken toward or against a person of a certain group in consideration based solely on class or category. Discrimination is the actual behavior towards another group. It involves excluding or restricting members of one group from opportunities that are available to other groups . The United Nations explains: "Discriminatory behaviors take many forms, but they all involve some form of exclusion or rejection.
Double-ended queue: In computer science, a double-ended queue (often abbreviated to deque, pronounced deck) is an abstract data structure that implements a queue for which elements can only be added to or removed from the front (head) or back (tail). It is also often called a head-tail linked list.
Dean Koontz: Dean Ray Koontz (born July 9, 1945) is an American author best known for his novels which could be described broadly as suspense thrillers. He also frequently incorporates elements of horror, science fiction, mystery, and satire. Several of his books have appeared on the New York Times Bestseller List, with ten hardcovers and fourteen paperbacks reaching the number one slot. Early in his career, Koontz wrote under an array of pen names.
Diatessaron: The Diatessaron (c 160 - 175) is the most prominent Gospel harmony created by Tatian, an early Christian apologist and ascetic. The term "diatessaron" is from Middle English ("interval of a fourth") by way of Latin, diatessarn ("made of four "), and ultimately Greek, (dia tessarn) ("out of four"; i.e. ,, dia, "at intervals of" and tessarn, "four"). Tatian combined the four gospels Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John into a single narrative.
Diene: In organic chemistry dienes or diolefins are hydrocarbons that contain two alkene groups. Conjugated dienes are a functional group, with a general formula of C4R6. Dienes occur occasionally in nature but are widely used in the polymer industry.
Drake equation: The Drake equation (sometimes called the "Green Bank equation", the "Green Bank Formula" or-erroneously-the "Sagan equation") is an equation to calculate the potential number of extraterrestrial civilizations in our galaxy, the Milky Way. It is used in the fields of exobiology and the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI).
Diplomatic immunity: Diplomatic immunity is a form of legal immunity and a policy held between governments, which ensures that diplomats are given safe passage and are considered not susceptible to lawsuit or prosecution under the host country's laws (although they can be expelled). It was agreed as international law in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations (1961), though the concept and custom have a much longer history. Many principles of diplomatic immunity are now considered to be customary law.
Don Rosa: Keno Don Hugo Rosa (Don Rosa) (born June 29, 1951) is an American comic book writer and illustrator known for his stories about Scrooge McDuck, Donald Duck and other Disney characters. He was born in Louisville, Kentucky, United States. A major work is The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck.
DDR SDRAM: Double Data Rate synchronous dynamic random access memory (or also known as DDR SDRAM) is a class of memory integrated circuits used in computers. Compared to the preceding single data rate (SDR) SDRAM, the DDR SDRAM interface makes higher transfer rates possible by more strict control of the timing of the electrical data and clock signals. Implementations often have to use schemes such as phase-locked loops and self-calibration to reach the required timing accuracy.
Damascus: Damascus is the capital and largest city of Syria as well as one of the country's 14 governorates. The Damascus Governorate is ruled by a governor appointed by the Minister of Interior. In addition to being widely known as the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world, Damascus is a major cultural and religious center of the Levant. Currently, the city has an estimated population of about 1,669,000. Unofficial estimates often assume a much larger population.
Deimos: Deimos, a Greek word for dread, may refer to: Deimos (mythology), one of the sons of Ares and Aphrodite in Greek mythology Deimos (moon), the smaller and outermost of Mars' two natural satellites Deimos (comics), villain for the Warlord comic series There are also two unrelated computer operating systems called DEIMOS: an early message passing OS for the Cray-1 (briefly mentioned at Cray Time Sharing System) Dynamically Extensible Incrementally Modularised Operating System
Dziga Vertov: Dziga Vertov was a Soviet pioneer documentary film, newsreel director and cinema theorist. His filming practices and theories paved the way to Cina vit style of documentary moviemaking. Vertov's brothers Boris Kaufman and Mikhail Kaufman were also notable filmmakers, as was his wife, Elizaveta Svilova.
Delaware General Corporation Law: The Delaware General Corporation Law (Title 8, Chapter 1 of the Delaware Code) is the statute governing corporate law in the state of Delaware. Delaware is well known as a corporate haven. Over 50% of U.S. publicly-traded corporations and 60% of the Fortune 500 companies are incorporated in that state.
Detroit River: The Detroit River is a 32 mile (51 km) long strait in the Great Lakes system. The name comes from the French Rivie du Droit, which translates literally as River of the Strait. The Detroit River has served an important role in the history of Detroit and is one of the busiest waterways in the world. The river travels south from Lake St. Clair to Lake Erie, and the whole river carries the international border between Canada and the United States.
Dsungaripterus: Dsungaripterus was a genus of pterosaur with an average wingspan of three metres (ten feet). It lived during the Early Cretaceous, in China, where the first fossil was found in the Junggar Basin.
David A. Huffman: David Albert Huffman (August 9, 1925 - October 7, 1999) was a pioneer in the computer science field. Throughout his life, Huffman made significant contributions to the study of finite state machines, switching circuits, synthesis procedures, and signal designs. However, David Huffman is best known for the invention of Huffman code, a highly important compression scheme for lossless variable length encoding.
Dagome iudex: "Dagome iudex" is the name applied to one of the earliest documents believed to relate to Poland. "Poland" is not mentioned by that name, but reference is made to Dagome and Ote and their sons in 991, placing their territory (the "state in whole which is called Schinesghe") under the protection of the Apostolic See. The document's name derives from two of its opening words.
Derek Walcott: The Hon. Derek Alton Walcott, OCC (born January 23, 1930) is a Caribbean poet, playwright, writer and visual artist. Born in Castries, Saint Lucia, he won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1992. His work, which developed independently of the schools of magic realism emerging in both South America and Europe at around the time of his birth, is intensely related to the symbolism of myth and its relationship to culture.
Decipherment: Decipherment is the analysis of documents written in ancient languages, where the language is unknown, or knowledge of the language has been lost. It is closely related to cryptanalysis - the difference being that the original document was not deliberately written to be difficult to decipher. The term has also been used to describe the analysis of the genetic code information encoded in DNA - see the Human Genome Project article for more on this.
Decca Navigator System: The Decca Navigator System was a hyperbolic low frequency radio navigation system (also known as multilateration) that was first deployed during World War II when the Allied forces needed a system which could be used to achieve accurate landings. As was the case with Loran C, its primary use was for ship navigation in coastal waters. Fishing vessels were major post-war users, but it was also used on aircraft, including a very early (1949) application of moving-map displays.
DARPA: The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) is an agency of the United States Department of Defense responsible for the development of new technology for use by the military. DARPA has been responsible for funding the development of many technologies which have had a major effect on the world, including computer networking, as well as NLS, which was both the first hypertext system, and an important precursor to the contemporary ubiquitous graphical user interface.
Dunstan: Dunstan (c. 909 - 19 May 988) was an Abbot of Glastonbury, a Bishop of Worcester, a Bishop of London, and an Archbishop of Canterbury, later canonised as a saint. His work restored monastic life in England and reformed the English Church. His 11th-century biographer, Osbern, himself an artist and scribe, states that Dunstan was skilled in "making a picture and forming letters", as were other clergy of his age who reached senior rank.
Dana Rohrabacher: Dana Tyron Rohrabacher (born June 21, 1947, in Coronado, California), is a Californian politician, who has been a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives since 1989 and currently represents California's 46th congressional district.
Deprogramming: Deprogramming refers to actions that attempt to force a person to abandon allegiance to a religious, political, economic, or social group. Methods and practices typically involve violent kidnapping and coercion. Similar actions, when done without force, are called "exit counseling". Deprogramming is often commissioned by relatives of the follower, often parents of adult children, and is taken against his/her will, which has led to controversies over freedom of religion and civil rights.
Digital Private Network Signalling System: The Digital Private Network Signalling System (DPNSS) is a network protocol used on digital trunk lines for connecting two PABX. It supports a defined set of inter-networking facilities. DPNSS was originally defined by British Telecom. The specification for the protocol is defined in BTNR188. The specification currently comes under the Network Interoperability Consultative Committee.
DASS1: Digital Access Signaling System 1 (DASS1) is a protocol defined by British Telecom for digital links to PSTN based on ISDN.
DASS2: Digital Access Signaling System 2 (DASS2) is an obsolescent protocol defined by British Telecom for digital links to PSTN based on ISDN. Although still available on request, it has been superseded by ETS 300 ("EuroISDN"). DASS2 is an improved version over DASS1, based on experiences with DPNSS. In the UK, the ISDN concept was first introduced to customers by BT with their DASS2 connections. DASS2 (Digital Access Signalling System) is a BT designed signalling standard.
Diplomatic mission: A diplomatic mission is a group of people from one state or an international inter-governmental organization (such as the United Nations) present in another state to represent the sending state/organization in the receiving state. In practice, a diplomatic mission usually denotes the permanent mission, namely the office of a country's diplomatic representatives in the capital city of another country.
Daily Planet: The Daily Planet is a fictional broadsheet newspaper in the DC Comics Universe, appearing mostly in the stories of Superman. The Daily Planet is based in Metropolis and employs Clark Kent, Lois Lane, and Jimmy Olsen; its Editor In Chief is Perry White. In the comics, the newspaper is located in the heart of Metropolis, at the corner of Fifth Street and Concord Lane. The Planet began publication in 1775; George Washington wrote a guest editorial for the first daily edition.
Dagger: A dagger is a double-edged blade used for stabbing or thrusting. They often fulfill the role of a secondary defense weapon in close combat. In most cases, a tang extends into the handle along the centreline of the blade. Daggers may be differentiated from knives on the basis that daggers are intended primarily for stabbing whereas knives are usually single-edged and intended mostly for cutting. However, many knives and daggers are capable of either stabbing or cutting.
DEC Alpha: Alpha, originally known as Alpha AXP, is a 64-bit reduced instruction set computer (RISC) instruction set architecture (ISA) developed by Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), designed to replace the 32-bit VAX complex instruction set computer (CISC) ISA and its implementations. Alpha was implemented in microprocessors originally developed and fabricated by DEC.
Devanagari: Devanagari (, Devangar), also called Nagari (Ngar, the name of its parent writing system), is an abugida alphabet of India and Nepal. It is written from left to right, lacks distinct letter cases, and is recognizable by a distinctive horizontal line running along the tops of the letters that links them together. Devangar is the main script used to write Hindi, Marathi, and Nepali. Since the 19th century, it has been the most commonly used script for Sanskrit.
Defense: Defense or defence may refer to:
Dialectical materialism: Dialectical materialism is a strand of Marxist theorizing, predominant in the Soviet Union, composed of a synthesis of Hegel's dialectics and Feuerbach's materialism, based upon an interpretation of Karl Marx's work. According to certain followers of Karl Marx's thinking, it is the philosophical basis of Marxism, although this remains a controversial assertion due to the disputed status of science and naturalism in Marx's thought.
Dominican Order: The Order of Preachers, after the 15th century more commonly known as the Dominican Order or Dominicans, is a Catholic religious order founded by Saint Dominic and approved by Pope Honorius III (1216-27) on 22 December 1216 in France. Membership in the Order includes the friars, the nuns, congregations of active Sisters, and lay persons affiliated with the order (formerly known as tertiaries, now Lay or Secular Dominicans).
Don McLean: Donald McLean, Jr. (born October 2, 1945, New Rochelle, New York) is an American singer-songwriter. He is most famous for the 1971 album American Pie, containing the renowned songs "American Pie" and "Vincent". The McLean clan traces its roots to the island of Iona in the Scottish Hebrides. Both Don's grandfather and father were also named Donald McLean. The Buccis, the family of McLean's mother, Elizabeth, came from Abruzzo in central Italy.
Dutch Limburg: Dutch Limburg can mean: Limburg of the States (1648-1794), territories controlled by the Dutch States-General, see Generality Lands Province of Limburg (1815-1839), province of the former United Kingdom of the Netherlands Duchy of Limburg (1839-1867), duchy in personal union with the Kingdom of the Netherlands Limburg (Netherlands) (1866-present), province of the Netherlands
DirkJan: DirkJan is a comic, the creation of Dutch author and artist Mark Retera. It is also the name of its main character. DirkJan is a loser who stumbles through life in mostly three-panel comic strips.
Duck Hunt: Duck Hunt is a video game for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) game console system in which players use the NES Zapper to shoot ducks on screen for points. The game was developed and published by Nintendo, and was released in 1984 in Japan. The ducks appear one or two at a time, and the player is given three shots to shoot them down. Duck Hunt was one of the two original pack-in titles for the first release of the game system.
Das Boot: Das Boot is a 1981 feature film directed by Wolfgang Petersen, adapted from a novel of the same name by Lothar-Gnther Buchheim. Hans-Joachim Krug, former first officer on U-219, served as a consultant, as did Heinrich Lehmann-Willenbrock, the captain of the real U-96. The film is the story of a single patrol of one World War II U-boat, U-96, and its crew.
Distance education: Distance education, or distance learning, is a field of education that focuses on the pedagogy, technology, and instructional system designs that aim to deliver education to students who are not physically "on site". According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, it is a process to create and provide access to learning when the source of information and the learners are separated by time and distance, or both.
Death of a Hero: Death of a Hero is a World War I novel by Richard Aldington. It was his first novel, written in 1929, and thought to be partly autobiographical.
Dynamic HTML: Dynamic HTML, or DHTML, is an umbrella term for a collection of technologies used together to create interactive and animated web sites by using a combination of a static markup language, a client-side scripting language, a presentation definition language, and the Document Object Model.
Degree Confluence Project: The Degree Confluence Project is a World Wide Web-based all-volunteer project which aims to have people visit each of the integer degree intersections of latitude and longitude on Earth, posting photographs and a narrative of each visit online. Intersections are defined on the horizontal datum WGS 84. The project describes itself as "an organized sampling of the world".
Danny Kaye: Danny Kaye (January 18, 1913 - March 3, 1987) was an American actor, singer and comedian.
DanceWriting: DanceWriting is a form of dance notation. Developed in 1972 by Valerie Sutton, it is part of a greater body of work called MovementWriting or the International Movement-Writing Alphabet. DanceWriting uses figurative and abstract symbols on a five-line staff. DanceWriting was first developed in 1966, when Sutton was only 15, training as a professional ballet dancer. She invented a stick figure notation for her own personal use.
Debit card: A debit card (also known as a bank card or check card) is a plastic card that provides an alternative payment method to cash when making purchases. Functionally, it can be called an electronic cheque, as the funds are withdrawn directly from either the bank account, or from the remaining balance on the card. In some cases, the cards are designed exclusively for use on the Internet, and so there is no physical card.
Dewar flask: A Dewar flask is a vessel designed to provide very good thermal insulation. For instance, when filled with a hot liquid, the vessel will not allow the heat to easily escape, and the liquid will stay hot for far longer than in a typical container. The Dewar flask was named after its inventor, the Scottish physicist Sir James Dewar.
Dance Dance Revolution: Dance Dance Revolution, abbreviated DDR, and previously known as Dancing Stage in Europe and Australasia, is a music video game series produced by Konami. Introduced in Japan in 1998 as part of the Bemani series, and released in North America and Europe in 1999, Dance Dance Revolution is the pioneering series of the rhythm and dance genre in video games. Players stand on a "dance platform" or stage and hit colored arrows laid out in a cross with their feet to musical and visual cues.
Dan DeCarlo: Daniel S. DeCarlo (December 12, 1919 - December 19, 2001) was an American cartoonist best known as the artist who developed the look of Archie Comics in the late 1950s and early 1960s, modernizing the characters to their contemporary appearance and establishing the publisher's house style. As well, he is the generally recognized creator of the characters Sabrina, the Teenage Witch, Josie and the Pussycats (with the lead character named for his wife), and Cheryl Blossom.
Dual Alliance 1879: The Dual Alliance was a defensive alliance between Germany and Austria-Hungary, which was created by treaty on October 7, 1879 as part of Bismarck's system of alliances to prevent/limit war. In it, Germany and Austria-Hungary pledged to aid one another in case of an attack by Russia. Also, each state promised benevolent neutrality to the other if one of them was attacked by another European power.
Developmental psychology: Developmental psychology, also known as human development, is the scientific study of systematic psychological changes that occur in human beings over the course of the life span. Originally concerned with infants and children, the field has expanded to include adolescence, adult development, aging, and the entire life span.
DNA replication: DNA replication, the basis for biological inheritance, is a fundamental process occurring in all living organisms to copy their DNA. This process is "replication" in that each strand of the original double-stranded DNA molecule serves as template for the reproduction of the complementary strand. Hence, following DNA replication, two identical DNA molecules have been produced from a single double-stranded DNA molecule.
Daisy Duck: Daisy Duck is one of Walt Disney's cartoon and comic book characters. She was created as a female counterpart and girlfriend to Donald Duck, and first appeared in the cartoon "Mr. Duck Steps Out" in 1940.. Daisy has Donald's temper but has far greater control of it (although on rare occasions her temper can burst out and she can get into rages similar to Donald's), and tends to be more sophisticated than her boyfriend. She usually wears either no pants herself or a dress.
List of deities: This list of deities is an index to polytheistic deity|deities of the different religions, cultures and mythologies of the world, listed by type and by region. This is not a list of names or epithets of God in monotheistic religions, for which see Names of God. For deified individuals see List of people who have been considered deities, Apotheosis, Imperial cult. For deities whose cult is fictional see List of deities in fiction.
Discounted cash flow: In finance, discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis is a method of valuing a project, company, or asset using the concepts of the time value of money. All future cash flows are estimated and discounted to give their present values (PVs) - the sum of all future cash flows, both incoming and outgoing, is the net present value (NPV), which is taken as the value or price of the cash flows in question.
Dot-com bubble: The "dot-com bubble" (or sometimes the "I.T. bubble") was a speculative bubble covering roughly 1995-2000 (with a climax on March 10, 2000 with the NASDAQ peaking at 5132.52) during which stock markets in industrialized nations saw their equity value rise rapidly from growth in the more recent Internet sector and related fields.
Dachau: Dachau is a town in Upper Bavaria, in the southern part of Germany. It is a major district towna Groe Kreisstadtof the administrative region of Upper Bavaria, about 20 km north-west of Munich. It is now a popular residential area for people working in Munich with roughly 40,000 inhabitants. The historic centre of town with its 18th century castle is situated on an elevation and visible over a great distance. Dachau was founded in the 8th century.
Drosophila: Drosophila is a genus of small flies, belonging to the family Drosophilidae, whose members are often called "fruit flies" or more appropriately (though less frequently) pomace flies, vinegar flies, or wine flies, a reference to the characteristic of many species to linger around overripe or rotting fruit.
Dana Plato: Dana Michelle Plato (November 1, 1963 - May 8, 1999) was an American actress notable for playing the role of Kimberly Drummond in the U.S. television sitcom Diff'rent Strokes. Plato's career declined after her departure from the show, with appearances in low-budget films, including softcore pornography. She had longstanding personal problems and died from an overdose of prescription medication on May 8, 1999.
Digit: Digit may refer to several things: Digit (anatomy), one of several most distal parts of a limbfingers, thumbs, and toes on hands and feet digits dancing Phone number, slang as digit, as in "Let me get your digits so I can call you tonight. " Numerical digit, as used in mathematics or computer science Digit (length), an ancient measurement unit DiGIT (magazine), a free online IT magazine based in Sri Lanka Digit (magazine), an Indian information technology magazine Digit, a Cyberchase character
Django Reinhardt: Jean "Django" Reinhardt (23 January 1910 - 16 May 1953) was a Gypsy jazz guitarist. One of the first prominent European jazz musicians, Reinhardt remains one of the most renowned jazz guitarists. With violinist Sthane Grappelli, he cofounded the Quintette du Hot Club de France, described by critic Thom Jurek as "one of the most original bands in the history of recorded jazz.
Dictatorship: A dictatorship is defined as an autocratic form of government in which the government is ruled by an individual, the dictator. It has three possible meanings: A Roman dictator was a political office of the Roman Republic. Roman dictators were allocated absolute power during times of emergency. Their power was originally neither arbitrary nor unaccountable, being subject to law and requiring retrospective justification.
Drop kick: A drop kick is a type of kick in various codes of football. It involves a player dropping the ball and then kicking it when it bounces off the ground. It contrasts to a punt, wherein the player kicks the ball without letting it hit the ground first. Drop kicks are used as a method of restarting play and scoring points in rugby union and rugby league. They can also be used in gridiron football codes and Australian rules football, though this is now rare.
Darcsyde Productions: Darcsyde Productions is a small-scale Australian web development and publishing concern, based in Melbourne, which has specialised in creating websites and role-playing games (RPGs). Among Darcsyde's early creations have been Trauma (out of print since early 2000s), Corum supplement, issued June 2001 for the Chaosium Stormbringer (aka Elric!) RPG and, in 2002, development of a Hawkmoon-themed supplement for the same games.
Diaeresis: In linguistics, diaeresis, or dieresis, is the pronunciation of two adjacent vowels in two separate syllables rather than as a diphthong or vowel digraph, and also the name of the diacritic mark () used to prompt the reader to pronounce adjacent vowels in this manner. For example the first two vowels in the word cooperate can be spelt co-operate or, using the diesis, coerate. The word diesis itself comes from the Greek noun , which derives from the verb (diairen).
European influence in Afghanistan: The European influence in Afghanistan refers to political, social, and sometimes imperialistic influence several European nations have had on this historical development of Afghanistan.
Dementia praecox: Dementia praecox refers to a chronic, deteriorating psychotic disorder characterized by rapid cognitive disintegration, usually beginning in the late teens or early adulthood. It is a term first used in 1891 in this Latin form by Arnold Pick (1851-1924), a professor of psychiatry at the German branch of Charles University in Prague. His brief clinical report described the case of a person with a psychotic disorder resembling hebephrenia (see below).
Derry: Derry or Londonderry is the second-biggest city in Northern Ireland and the fourth-biggest city on the island of Ireland. The old walled city lies on the west bank of the River Foyle, which is spanned by two bridges. The city now covers both banks (Cityside on the west and Waterside on the east). The city district also extends to rural areas to the southeast.
Division ring: In abstract algebra, a division ring, also called a skew field, is a ring in which division is possible. More formally, a ring with 0 1 is a division ring if every non-zero element a has a multiplicative inverse (i.e. an element x with ax = xa = 1). Division rings differ from fields only in that their multiplication is not required to be commutative. The condition 0 1 is only there to exclude the trivial ring with a single element 0 = 1.
Despotism: Despotism is a form of government by a single authority, either an individual (Despot), or tightly knit group, which rules with absolute political power.
Dia software: Dia is free and open source general-purpose diagramming software, developed as part of the GNOME project's office suite and was originally created by Alexander Larsson. Dia uses a controlled single document interface (CSDI) similar to GIMP and Sodipodi. Dia has a modular design with several shape packages available for different needs: flowchart, network diagrams, circuit diagrams, and more. It does not restrict symbols and connectors from various categories from being placed together.
Deep Space 1: Deep Space 1 (DS1) of the NASA New Millennium Program is a spacecraft dedicated to testing its payload of advanced, high risk technologies. Launched on 24 October 1998, three of twelve technologies on board had to work within a few minutes of separation from the carrier rocket for the mission to continue. The Deep Space mission carried out a flyby of asteroid 9969 Braille which was selected as the mission's science target.
Jacques-Louis David: Jacques-Louis David (30 August 1748 - 29 December 1825) was a highly influential French painter in the Neoclassical style, considered to be the preeminent painter of the era. In the 1780s his cerebral brand of history painting marked a change in taste away from Rococo frivolity toward a classical austerity and severity, heightened feeling chiming with the moral climate of the final years of the ancien rime.
Design Science License: Design Science License (DSL) is a copyleft license for free content such as text, images, music and other content but not for documentation or source code. The DSL was written by Michael Stutz.
David Bowman fictional character: Dr. David Bowman is a character in the Space Odyssey series. He first appears in a story jointly written by Stanley Kubrick and Arthur C. Clarke, called ' (which is both a book and a movie). The character later appears in the sequel to the book, ' and the sequel to the movie, 2010: The Year We Make Contact. The character also returns in two more books by Arthur C. Clarke, ', and '.
Diuretic: A diuretic is any drug that elevates the rate of urination and thus provides a means of forced diuresis. There are several categories of diuretics. All diuretics increase the excretion of water from bodies, although each class does so in a distinct way.
Dying Earth: The Dying Earth is a series of fantasy fixups (novels created from older short stories) by American author Jack Vance.
Dolphin: Dolphins are marine mammals that are closely related to whales and porpoises. There are almost forty species of dolphin in seventeen genera. They vary in size from 1.2 m (4 ft) and 40 kg (90 lb), up to 9.5 m (30 ft) and 10 tonnes (9.8 LT; 11 ST) (the Orca or Killer Whale). They are found worldwide, mostly in the shallower seas of the continental shelves, and are carnivores, mostly eating fish and squid.
Drum kit: A drum kit (also drum set, kit, or trap set) is a collections of drums, cymbals and often other percussion instruments, such as cowbells, wood blocks, triangles, chimes, or tambourines, arranged for convenient playing by a single person. The term "drum kit" first became used in the 1700s in Britain. In the U.S. , the terms "drum set", and "trap set" were more prevalent historically.
Dispute resolution: Dispute resolution is the process of resolving disputes between parties.
Dynamical system: The dynamical system concept is a mathematical formalization for any fixed "rule" which describes the time dependence of a point's position in its ambient space. Examples include the mathematical models that describe the swinging of a clock pendulum, the flow of water in a pipe, and the number of fish each spring in a lake. At any given time a dynamical system has a state given by a set of real numbers which can be represented by a point in an appropriate state space.
Seafarers of Catan: The Seafarers of Catan is an expansion of the board game The Settlers of Catan for three to four players (five to six player play is also possible with both of the respective five to six player expansions). The main feature of this expansion is the addition of ships to the game, allowing play between multiple islands. The expansion also provides numerous scenarios, some of which have custom rules.
Doctor V64: The Doctor V64 (also referred to as "V64") is a development and backup device made by Bung Enterprises Ltd that is used in conjunction with the Nintendo 64. The Doctor V64 also had the ability to play Video CDs, audio CDs and had an option for applying stereo 3D effects to the audio.
Dhimmi: A dhimmi (collectively ahl al-dhimmah, "the people of the dhimma or pact of protection"; Ottoman Turkish & Urdu zimmi, "one whose zimma has been taken") is a non-Muslim subject of a state governed in accordance with sharia law. The term connotes several restrictions, such as a poll tax known as the jizya, which complemented the Islamic tax paid by the Muslim subjects, called Zakat, a restricted freedom of religion and worship, and required loyalty to the empire.
Device driver: In computing, a device driver or software driver is a computer program allowing higher-level computer programs to interact with a hardware device. A driver typically communicates with the device through the computer bus or communications subsystem to which the hardware connects. When a calling program invokes a routine in the driver, the driver issues commands to the device. Once the device sends data back to the driver, the driver may invoke routines in the original calling program.
Dave Thomas American businessman: David "Dave" Thomas (July 2, 1932 - January 8, 2002) was an American restaurant owner and philanthropist. Thomas was the founder and chief executive officer of Wendy's Old Fashioned Hamburgers, a fast-food restaurant chain specializing in hamburgers. He is also known for appearing in more than 800 commercial advertisements for the chain from 1989 to 2002-more than any other person in television history.
Druid: A druid was a member of the priestly and learned class active in Gaul, and perhaps in Celtic culture more generally, during the final centuries BCE. They were suppressed by the Roman government from the 1st century CE and disappeared from the written record by the 2nd century, although there may have been later survivals in Britain and Ireland. Little contemporary evidence about druids exists, and thus little can be said regarding them with assurance.
De Havilland Mosquito: The de Havilland Mosquito was a British combat aircraft that excelled in versatility during the Second World War.
DC Comics: DC Comics (founded in 1934 as National Allied Publications) is one of the largest and most popular companies operating in the market for American comic books and related media. It is the publishing division of DC Entertainment Inc. , a subsidiary company of Warner Bros. Entertainment, which itself is owned by Time Warner.
Diophantine equation: In mathematics, a Diophantine equation is an indeterminate polynomial equation that allows the variables to be integers only. Diophantine problems have fewer equations than unknown variables and involve finding integers that work correctly for all equations. In more technical language, they define an algebraic curve, algebraic surface, or more general object, and ask about the lattice points on it.
Diophantus: Diophantus of Alexandria, sometimes called "the father of algebra", was an Alexandrian Greek mathematician and the author of a series of books called Arithmetica. These texts deal with solving algebraic equations, many of which are now lost. In studying Arithmetica, Pierre de Fermat concluded that a certain equation considered by Diophantus had no solutions, and noted without elaboration that he had found "a truly marvelous proof of this proposition," now referred to as Fermat's Last Theorem.
Dimona: Dimona is an Israeli city in the Negev desert, 36 kilometres (22 mi) to the south of Beersheba and 35 kilometres (22 mi) west of the Dead Sea above the Arava valley in the Southern District of Israel. Its population at the end of 2007 was 33,600.
Duke Kahanamoku: Duke Paoa Kahinu Mokoe Hulikohola Kahanamoku (August 24, 1890 - January 22, 1968) is generally regarded as the person who popularized the modern sport of surfing. He was also an Olympic champion in swimming.
Distinguished Service Medal Army: The Distinguished Service Medal (DSM) is a military award of the United States Army that is presented to any person who, while serving in any capacity with the United States military, has distinguished himself or herself by exceptionally meritorious service to the Government in a duty of great responsibility. The performance must be such as to merit recognition for service that is clearly exceptional. Exceptional performance of normal duty will not alone justify an award of this decoration.
Double boiler: A double boiler is a stove top apparatus used to cook delicate sauces such as beurre blanc or to melt chocolate without burning or seizing. It consists of an upper vessel containing the substance to be cooked which is situated above a lower pot of water. When brought to a boil, the steam released in the lower pot provides heat against the bottom of the upper one. The upper vessel must fit over tightly, or else steam may escape and affect the cooking substance.
Davis California: Davis is a city in Yolo County, California, United States. It is part of the Sacramento-Arden-Arcade-Roseville Metropolitan Statistical Area. According to estimates published by the US Census Bureau, the city had a total population of 62,724 in 2007 (60,308 in 2000). It is the largest city in Yolo County, and the 126th largest in the state, by population.
Defense Distinguished Service Medal: The Defense Distinguished Service Medal is a United States military award which is presented for exceptionally distinguished performance of duty contributing to national security or defense of the United States. The medal was created on July 9, 1970 by President Richard Nixon in Executive Order 11545. The decoration is awarded only at the highest levels of the military while assigned to a joint activity.
Dacoity: Dacoity is criminal activity involving robbery by groups of armed bandits. The word "Dacoity" is the anglicized version of the Indian word akait (historically spelled dakaitee, Hindi or Urdu or Bangla ) which comes from k or Bangla akat (). Dacoity means "armed robbery". Dacoit means "a bandit". According to OED ("A member of a class of robbers in India and Burma, who plunder in armed bands.
Don Tennant: Donald G. Tennant (November 23, 1922 - December 8, 2001) was an American advertising agency executive. He worked at the Leo Burnett agency in Chicago, Illinois. The agency is noted for putting anthropomorphic faces of "critters" on packaged goods. He was the first to draw Tony the Tiger for Kellogg's Sugar Frosted Flakes in 1952. Tennant was also in charge of the Marlboro account and invented the Marlboro Man.
Dale Chihuly: Dale Chihuly (b. September 20, 1941 in Tacoma, Washington, United States) is an American glass sculptor and entrepreneur.
Damon Runyon: Damon Runyon (October 4, 1880 - December 10, 1946) was a newspaperman and writer. He was best known for his short stories celebrating the world of Broadway in New York City that grew out of the Prohibition era. To New Yorkers of his generation, a "Damon Runyon character" evoked a distinctive social type from the Brooklyn or Midtown demi-monde. The adjective "Runyonesque" refers to this type of character as well as to the type of situations and dialog that Runyon depicted.
Dean Kamen: Dean L. Kamen (born 5 April 1951) is an American entrepreneur and inventor from New Hampshire. Born in Rockville Centre, New York, he attended Worcester Polytechnic Institute, but dropped out before graduating. His father was Jack Kamen, an illustrator of Mad Magazine, Weird Science and other EC Comics.
Devo: Devo is an American band associated most often with the New Wave music scene formed in Akron, Ohio in 1973. While they are best known for their 1980 hit "Whip It", which made it to #14 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, the band has successfully maintained a cult following since early in their career. Their style over time has shifted variously between punk, art rock, post-punk, and New Wave.
Disney disambiguation: Disney usually refers to the The Walt Disney Company. Disney may also refer to:
Derivative finance: In finance, derivatives is the collective name used for a broad class of financial instruments that derive their value from other financial instruments (known as the underlying), events or conditions. Derivatives are usually broadly categorised by the: relationship between the underlying and the derivative type of underlying market in which they trade (e.g.
Davros: Davros is a character from the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who. Davros is an archenemy of the Doctor and is responsible for the creation of the Doctor's deadliest enemies, the Daleks. Davros was created by screenwriter Terry Nation. Davros is a scientist from the planet Skaro whose people, the Kaleds, were engaged in a bitter thousand-year war of attrition with their enemies, the Thals.
Davy Jones actor: Davy Jones (born David Thomas Jones 30 December 1945) is an English pop singer-songwriter and actor best known as a member of The Monkees.
Divine right of kings: The Divine Right of Kings is a political and religious doctrine of royal absolutism. It asserts that a monarch is subject to no earthly authority, deriving his right to rule directly from the will of God. The king is thus not subject to the will of his people, the aristocracy, or any other estate of the realm, including the church. According to this doctrine, since only God can judge an unjust king, the king can do no wrong.
Dolores Fuller: Dolores Fuller (born 1923) is an American actress and songwriter best known as the one-time girlfriend of the low-budget film director Edward D. Wood, Jr. She played the protagonist's girlfriend in Glen or Glenda, co-starred in Wood's Jail Bait, and had a minor role in Bride of the Monster. Later, Elvis Presley recorded a number of her songs written for his films.
Dolly sheep: Dolly (5 July 1996 - 14 February 2003) was a female domestic sheep remarkable in being the first mammal to be cloned from an adult somatic cell, using the process of nuclear transfer. She was cloned by Ian Wilmut, Keith Campbell and colleagues at the Roslin Institute near Edinburgh in Scotland. She was born on 5 July 1996 and she lived until the age of six. She has been called "the world's most famous sheep" by sources including BBC News and Scientific American.
De jure: De jure (in Classical Latin de iure) is an expression that means "concerning law", as contrasted with de facto, which means "concerning fact". The terms de jure and de facto are used instead of "in principle" and "in practice", respectively, when one is describing political or legal situations. In a legal context, de jure is also translated as "concerning law".
Donald Campbell: Donald Malcolm Campbell, CBE (23 March 1921 - 4 January 1967) was a British car and motorboat racer who broke eight world speed records in the 1950s and 60s. He remains the only person to set both land and water speed records in the same year (1964).
Dalek: The Daleks are a fictional extraterrestrial race of mutants from the British science fiction television series Doctor Who. Daleks are organisms from the planet Skaro, integrated within a tank-like or robot-like mechanical casing. The resulting creatures are a powerful race bent on universal conquest and domination, utterly without pity, compassion or remorse.
Directed set: In mathematics, a directed set (or a directed preorder or a filtered set) is a nonempty set A together with a reflexive and transitive binary relation (that is, a preorder), with the additional property that every pair of elements has an upper bound. Directed sets are a generalization of nonempty totally ordered sets, that is, all totally ordered sets are directed sets (but not all partially ordered sets).
Des Moines Iowa: Des Moines is the capital and the most populous city in the U.S. state of Iowa. It is also the county seat of Polk County. A small portion of the city extends into Warren County. It was incorporated on September 22, 1851, as Fort Des Moines which was shortened to "Des Moines" in 1857. It is named after the Des Moines River, which may have been adapted from the French Rivie des Moines, literally meaning "River of the Monks.
Edward Bellamy: Edward Bellamy (26 March 1850 - 22 May 1898) was an American author and socialist, most famous for his utopian novel, Looking Backward, set in the year 2000.
E: E is the fifth letter in the Latin alphabet. It is also the second vowel of the five vowels in the Latin alphabet. Its name in English is spelled e; or, rarely, ee, and the plural is ees. E is the most commonly used letter in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Hungarian, Latin, Norwegian, Spanish, and Swedish languages.
Electronic paper: Electronic paper, e-paper or electronic ink display is a display technology designed to mimic the appearance of ordinary ink on paper. Unlike a conventional flat panel display, which uses a backlight to illuminate its pixels, electronic paper reflects light like ordinary paper and is capable of holding text and images indefinitely without drawing electricity, while allowing the image to be changed later.
Earth: Earth (or the Earth) is the third planet from the Sun, and the fifth-largest of the eight planets in the Solar System. It is also the largest, most massive, and densest of the Solar System's four terrestrial planets. It is sometimes referred to as the World, the Blue Planet, or by its Latin name, '. Home to millions of species, including humans, Earth is the only place in the Universe where life is known to exist.
Economics: Economics is the social science that studies the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services. The term economics comes from the Ancient Greek (oikonomia, "management of a household, administration") from (oikos, "house") + (nomos, "custom" or "law"), hence "rules of the house(hold)". Current economic models developed out of the broader field of political economy in the late 19th century, owing to a desire to use an empirical approach more akin to the physical sciences.
Eiffel Tower: The Eiffel Tower is a 19th century iron lattice tower located on the Champ de Mars in Paris that has become both a global icon of France and one of the most recognizable structures in the world. The Eiffel Tower, which is the tallest building in Paris, is the single most visited paid monument in the world; millions of people ascend it every year. Named after its designer, engineer Gustave Eiffel, the tower was built as the entrance arch for the 1889 World's Fair.
Ethical egoism: Ethical egoism (also called simply egoism) is the normative ethical position that moral agents ought to do what is in their own self-interest. It differs from psychological egoism, which claims that people do only act in their self-interest. Ethical egoism also differs from rational egoism, which holds merely that it is rational to act in one's self-interest. These doctrines may, though, be combined with ethical egoism.
Evolution: In biology, evolution is the change in the inherited traits of a population of organisms through successive generations. When a population splits into smaller groups, these groups evolve independently and develop into new species.
English Channel: The English Channel is an arm of the Atlantic Ocean that separates England from northern France, and joins the North Sea to the Atlantic. It is about 560 km (350 mi) long and varies in width from 240 km (150 mi) at its widest, to only 34 km (21 mi) in the Strait of Dover. It is the smallest of the shallow seas around the continental shelf of Europe, covering an area of some 75,000 km (29,000 sq mi).
Ernst W. Mayr: "Ernst Mayr" redirects here; it is not to be confused with Ernst Meyer. Ernst Walter Mayr (July 5, 1904, Kempten, Germany - February 3, 2005, Bedford, Massachusetts, United States), was one of the 20th century's leading evolutionary biologists. He was also a renowned taxonomist, tropical explorer, ornithologist, historian of science, and naturalist.
Europa: Europa is a Phoenician princess in Greek mythology. Her name is the name for Europe in Latin and several other languages. Europa may also refer to: Europa (moon), a moon of the planet Jupiter Europa Island, a small island in the Indian Ocean which is a possession of France 52 Europa, the seventh-largest known asteroid
Euglenozoa: The Euglenozoa are a large group of flagellate protozoa. They include a variety of common free-living species, as well as a few important parasites, some of which infect humans. There are two main subgroups, the euglenids and kinetoplastids. Euglenozoa are unicellular, mostly around 15-40 in size, although some euglenids get up to 500 long.
Europe: Europe is, by convention, one of the world's seven continents. Comprising the westernmost peninsula of Eurasia, Europe is generally divided from Asia to its east by the water divide of the Ural Mountains, the Ural River, the Caspian Sea, the Caucasus Mountains, and the Black Sea to the southeast.
Epistemology: Epistemology (from Greek ' - episteme-, "knowledge, science" + ', "logos") or theory of knowledge is the branch of philosophy concerned with the nature and scope (limitations) of knowledge. It addresses the questions: What is knowledge? How is knowledge acquired? What do people know? How do we know what we know? Much of the debate in this field has focused on analyzing the nature of knowledge and how it relates to similar notions such as truth, belief, and justification.
Engineering: Engineering is the discipline, art and profession of acquiring and applying technical, scientific, and mathematical knowledge to design and implement materials, structures, machines, devices, systems, and processes that safely realize a desired objective or invention.
Education: Education in the broadest sense is any act or experience that has a formative effect on the mind, character or physical ability of an individual. In its technical sense education is the process by which society deliberately transmits its accumulated knowledge, skills and values from one generation to another. Etymologically the word education contains educare (Latin) "bring up" which is related to educere "bring out", "bring forth what is within", "bring out potential" and ducere "to lead".
Encyclopedia: An encyclopedia (also spelled encyclopaedia or encyclopia) is a type of reference work, a compendium holding information from either all branches of knowledge or a particular branch of knowledge. Encyclopedias are divided into articles. The articles in an encyclopedia are usually accessed alphabetically by article name (or sometimes by theme) and can be contained in one volume or many volumes, depending on the amount of material included.
Esperanto: Esperanto is the most widely spoken constructed international auxiliary language. Its name derives from Doktoro Esperanto, the pseudonym under which L. L. Zamenhof published the first book detailing Esperanto, the Unua Libro, in 1887. The word esperanto means "one who hopes" in the language itself. The language's original name was "La Internacia Lingvo.
Enigma machine: An Enigma machine is any of a family of related electro-mechanical rotor machines used for the encryption and decryption of secret messages. The first Enigma was invented by German engineer Arthur Scherbius at the end of World War I. This model and its variants were used commercially from the early 1920s, and adopted by military and government services of several countriesmost notably by Nazi Germany before and during World War II.
Ethics: Ethics (also known as moral philosophy) is a branch of philosophy which seeks to address questions about morality; that is, about concepts such as good and bad, right and wrong, justice, and virtue.
Enzyme: Enzymes are mainly proteins, that catalyze chemical reactions. In enzymatic reactions, the molecules at the beginning of the process are called substrates, and the enzyme converts them into different molecules, called the products. Almost all processes in a biological cell need enzymes to occur at significant rates.
Equivalence relation: In mathematics, an equivalence relation is, loosely, a relation that specifies how to partition a set such that every element of the set is in exactly one of the partitions and the union of all the partitions equals the original set. Two elements of the set are considered equivalent (with respect to the equivalence relation) if and only if they are elements of the same partition.
Equivalence class: In mathematics, given a set X and an equivalence relation ~ on X, the equivalence class of an element a in X is the subset of all elements in X which are equivalent to a: The notion of equivalence classes is useful for constructing sets out of already constructed ones. The set of all equivalence classes in X given an equivalence relation ~ is usually denoted as X / ~ and called the quotient set of X by ~.
Ether: Ether is a class of organic compounds that contain an ether group an oxygen atom connected to two alkyl or aryl groups of general formula R-O-R. A typical example is the solvent and anesthetic diethyl ether, commonly referred to simply as "ether" (CH3-CH2-O-CH2-CH3). Ethers are common in organic chemistry and pervasive in biochemistry, as they are common linkages in carbohydrates and lignin.
Ecliptic: The ecliptic is the apparent path that the Sun traces out in the sky during the year, appearing to move eastwards on an imaginary spherical surface, the celestial sphere, relative to the (almost) fixed stars. In more accurate terms, it is the intersection of the celestial sphere with the ecliptic plane, which is the geometric plane containing the mean orbit of the Earth around the Sun.
List of former sovereign states: This page attempts to list the many extinct states, countries, nations, empires or territories that have ceased to exist as political entities, grouped geographically and by constitutional nature.
Entertainment: Entertainment consists of any activity which provides a diversion or permits people to amuse themselves in their leisure time. Entertainment is generally passive, such as watching opera or a movie. Active forms of amusement, such as games or sports, are more often considered to be recreation. Activities such as personal reading or practicing a musical instruments are considered as hobbies. The industry that provides entertainment is called the entertainment industry.
Evolutionary linguistics: Evolutionary linguistics is the scientific study of the origins and development of language. The main challenge in this research is the lack of empirical data: spoken language leaves practically no traces. This led to an abandonment of the field for more than a century. Since the late 1980s, the field has been revived in the wake of progress made in the related fields of psycholinguistics, neurolinguistics, evolutionary anthropology and cognitive science.
Ellipse: In geometry, an ellipse (from Greek elleipsis, a "falling short") is a plane curve that results from the intersection of a cone by a plane in a way that produces a closed curve. Circles are special cases of ellipses, obtained when the cutting plane is perpendicular to the axis. An ellipse is also the locus of all points of the plane whose distances to two fixed points add to the same constant.
Equation: An equation is a mathematical statement that asserts the equality of two expressions. Equations consist of the expressions that are to be equal on opposite sides of an equal sign, as in: One use of equations is in mathematical identities, assertions that are true independent of the values of any variables contained within them. For example, for any given value of it is true that However, equations can also be correct for only certain values of the variables.
Echelon signals intelligence: ECHELON is a name used in global media and in popular culture to describe a signals intelligence (SIGINT) collection and analysis network operated on behalf of the five signatory states to the UK-USA Security Agreement. It has also been described as the only software system which controls the download and dissemination of the intercept of commercial satellite trunk communications.
Ethical naturalism: Ethical naturalism (also called moral naturalism or naturalistic cognitivistic definism) is the meta-ethical view which claims that: Ethical sentences express propositions. Some such propositions are true. Those propositions are made true by objective features of the world, independent of human opinion. These moral features of the world can be reduced to some set of non-moral features. This makes ethical naturalism a definist form of moral realism, which is in turn a form of cognitivism.
Ethical non-naturalism: Ethical non-naturalism is the meta-ethical view which claims that: Ethical sentences express propositions. Some such propositions are true. Those propositions are made true by objective features of the world, independent of human opinion. These moral features of the world are not reducible to any set of non-moral facts. This makes ethical non-naturalism a non-definist form of moral realism, which is in turn a form of cognitivism.
Elephant: Elephants are large land mammals in two genera of the family Elephantidae: Elephas and Loxodonta. Three species of elephant are living today: the African Bush Elephant, the African Forest Elephant and the Asian Elephant (also known as the Indian Elephant). All other species and genera of Elephantidae are extinct, some since the last ice age: dwarf forms of mammoths may have survived as late as 2,000 BC.
The Evil Dead: The Evil Dead is a 1981 U.S. horror film written and directed by Sam Raimi, starring Bruce Campbell, Ellen Sandweiss and Betsy Baker. The film is a story of five college students vacationing in an isolated cabin in a wooded area. Their vacation becomes gruesome when they find an audiotape that releases evil spirits. The film was extremely controversial for its graphic terror, violence and gore, being initially turned down by almost all U.S.
Economic calculation problem: The economic calculation problem is a criticism of socialist economics, or more precisely central economic planning. It was first proposed by Ludwig von Mises in 1920 and later expounded by Friedrich Hayek. The problem referred to is that of how to distribute resources rationally in an economy. The free market solution is the price mechanism, wherein people individually have the ability to decide how a good should be distributed based on their willingness to give money for it.
Erasmus Darwin: Erasmus Darwin (12 December 1731 - 18 April 1802) was an English physician who turned down George III's invitation to be a physician to the King. One of the key thinkers of the Midlands Enlightenment, he was also a natural philosopher, physiologist, abolitionist, inventor and poet. His poems included much natural history, including a statement of evolution and the relatedness of all forms of life.
Ediacaran: The Ediacaran Period is the last geological period of the Neoproterozoic Era and of the Proterozoic Eon, immediately preceding the Cambrian Period, the first period of the Paleozoic Era and of the Phanerozoic Eon. Its status as an official geological period was ratified in 2004 by the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS), making it the first new geological period declared in 120 years. The type section is in the Flinders Ranges in South Australia.
Erotica: Erotica or "curiosa", are works of art, including literature, photography, film, sculpture and painting, that deal substantively with erotically stimulating or sexually arousing descriptions. Erotica is a modern word used to describe the portrayal of the human anatomy and sexuality with high-art aspirations, differentiating such work from commercial pornography. "Curiosa" is generally used to refer to erotica and pornography as discrete, collectible items, usually in published or printed form.
Economy disambiguation: Economy is the human activity that consists in producing, exchanging, distributing, and consuming goods and services, studied by economics and realised inside an economic system.
Elvis Presley: Elvis Aaron Presley (January 8, 1935 - August 16, 1977) was an American musician and actor. A cultural icon, he is widely known by the single name Elvis. He is often referred to as the "King of Rock and Roll" or simply "the King". Born in Tupelo, Mississippi, Presley moved to Memphis, Tennessee, with his family at the age of 13.
Existence: In common usage, existence is the world of which we are aware through our senses and persists independently without them. In academic philosophy the word has a more specialized meaning, being contrasted with essence, which specifies different forms of existence as well as different identity conditions for objects and properties.
Demand-pull inflation: Demand-pull inflation arises when aggregate demand in an economy outpaces aggregate supply. It involves inflation rising as real gross domestic product rises and unemployment falls, as the economy moves along the Phillips curve. This is commonly described as "too much money chasing too few goods". More accurately, it should be described as involving "too much money spent chasing too few goods", since only money that is spent on goods and services can cause inflation.
Extractor mathematics: An -extractor is a bipartite graph with nodes on the left and nodes on the right such that each node on the left has neighbors (on the right), which has the added property that for any subset of the left vertices of size at least, the distribution on right vertices obtained by choosing a random node in and then following a random edge to get a node x on the right side is -close to the uniform distribution in terms of total variation distance. A disperser is a related graph.
Enterprise resource planning: Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is an integrated computer-based system used to manage internal and external resources including tangible assets, financial resources, materials, and human resources. It is a software architecture whose purpose is to facilitate the flow of information between all business functions inside the boundaries of the organization and manage the connections to outside stakeholders.
Cost-push inflation: Cost-push inflation is a type of inflation caused by substantial increases in the cost of important goods or services where no suitable alternative is available. A situation that has been often cited of this was the oil crisis of the 1970s, which some economists see as a major cause of the inflation experienced in the Western world in that decade. It is argued that this inflation resulted from increases in the cost of petroleum imposed by the member states of OPEC.
Expander graph: In combinatorics, an expander graph is a sparse graph that has high connectivity properties, quantified using vertex or edge expansion as described below. Expander constructions have spawned research in pure and applied mathematics, with several applications to theoretical computer science, design of robust computer networks, and the theory of error-correcting codes.
Endocrine system: The endocrine system is a system of glands, each of which secretes a type of hormone to regulate the body. The endocrine system is an information signal system much like the nervous system. Hormones regulate many functions of an organism, including mood, growth and development, tissue function, and metabolism. The field of study that deals with disorders of endocrine glands is endocrinology, a branch of the wider field of internal medicine.
Endocrinology: Endocrinology (from Greek, endo, "within";, krn, "to separate"; and, ') is a branch of medicine dealing with disorder of the endocrine system and its specific secretions called hormones, the integration of developmental events such as proliferation, growth, and differentiation and the coordination of metabolism, respiration, excretion, movement, reproduction, and sensory perception depend on chemical cues, substances synthesised and secreted by specialized cells.
Eriocaulales: Eriocaulales is a botanical name for an order of flowering plants. The name was published by Nakai. In the Cronquist system the name was used for an order placed in the subclass Commelinidae. The order consisted of one family only (1981): order Eriocaulales family Eriocaulaceae The APG II system assigns these plants to the order Poales.
Ericales: The Ericales are a large and diverse order of dicotyledons, including for example tea, persimmon, blueberry, Brazil nut, and azalea. The order includes trees and bushes, lianas and herbaceous plants. Together with ordinary autophytic plants, the Ericales include chlorophyll-deficient myco-heterotrophic plants (e. g. Sarcodes sanguinea) and carnivorous plants (e. g. genus Sarracenia). Many species have five petals, often grown together.
European Union: The European Union (EU) is an economic and political union of 27 member states, located primarily in Europe. Committed to regional integration, the EU was established by the Treaty of Maastricht on 1 November 1993 upon the foundations of the European Communities. With over 500 million citizens, the EU combined generates an estimated 30% share (US$ 18.4 trillion in 2008) of the nominal gross world product and about 22% (US$15.2 trillion in 2008) of the PPP gross world product.
Edward Sapir: Edward Sapir, (January 26, 1884 - February 4, 1939) was a German-born American anthropologist-linguist and a leader in American structural linguistics. He was one of the creators of what is now called the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis. He is arguably the most influential figure in American linguistics, influencing several generations of linguists across several schools of the discipline.
England: England is a country that is part of the United Kingdom. It shares land borders with Scotland to the north and Wales to the west; the Irish Sea is to the north west, the Celtic Sea to the south west and the North Sea to the east, with the English Channel to the south separating it from continental Europe. Most of England comprises the central and southern part of the island of Great Britain in the North Atlantic.
Easter egg: Easter eggs are specially decorated eggs given to celebrate the Easter holiday or springtime. The egg was a symbol of the rebirth of the earth in Pagan celebrations of spring and was adopted by early Christians as a symbol of the rebirth of Jesus. The oldest tradition is to use dyed or painted chicken eggs, but a modern custom is to substitute chocolate eggs, or plastic eggs filled with confectionery such as jelly beans.
Euphoria disambiguation: Euphoria is an emotional and mental state defined as a sense of great elation and well being. Euphoria may also refer to: Euphoria (beetle), a genus of scarab beetles Euphoria (plant), a genus of trees and shrubs in the family Sapindaceae including E.
Errol Morris: Errol Morris (born February 5, 1948) is an American Academy Award-winning documentary film director. In 2003, The Guardian put him seventh in its list of the world's 40 best directors.
Euclid: Euclid, fl. 300 BC, also known as Euclid of Alexandria, was a Greek mathematician, often referred to as the "Father of Geometry. " He was active in Alexandria during the reign of Ptolemy I (323-283 BC). His Elements is one of the most influential works in the history of mathematics, serving as the main textbook for teaching mathematics from the time of its publication until the late 19th or early 20th century.
Easter: Easter is the most important annual religious feast in the Christian liturgical year. According to Christian scripture, Jesus was resurrected from the dead on the third day after his crucifixion. Some Christians celebrate this resurrection on Easter Day or Easter Sunday (also Resurrection Day or Resurrection Sunday), two days after Good Friday and three days after Maundy Thursday. The chronology of his death and resurrection is variously interpreted to be between AD 26 and AD 36.
Ethan Allen: Ethan Allen (January 21, 1738 - February 12, 1789) was a farmer, businessman, land speculator, philosopher, writer, and American Revolutionary War patriot, hero, and politician. Allen was an early American revolutionary and guerrilla leader who, before the war, fought against the Province of New York's attempts to take control of the New Hampshire Grants.
History of Ecuador: The History of Ecuador extends over a 9,000-year period. During this time a variety of cultures and territories influenced what has become the Republic of Ecuador. The history can be divided into five eras: Pre-Columbian, The Conquest, The Colonial Period, The War of Independence and the Republican Era. The beginning of the history is represented by a variety of cultures and finishes with the Incan invasion.
Demographics of Ecuador: Ecuador's population is very diverse, comprising many races and ethnic groups. In general, Ecuadorians trace their origins from four sources of migration: Amerindians, Europeans, Africans and Asians. Mestizos or Mixed blood Indigenous (those of mixed Amerindian and Spanish ancestry) are by far the largest of all the ethnic groups, constituting over 65 per cent of the current population. In second place are the Amerindians, who account for approximately a quarter of the population.
Ecuador: Ecuador, officially the Republic of Ecuador, literally, "Republic of the equator" is a representative democratic republic in South America, bordered by Colombia on the north, Peru on the east and south, and by the Pacific Ocean to the west. It is one of only two countries in South America, along with Chile, that do not have a border with Brazil. The country also includes the Galagos Islands in the Pacific, about 1,000 kilometers (620 mi) west of the mainland.
Geography of Ecuador: Ecuador is a country in western South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean at the Equator, for which the country is named. Ecuador encompasses a wide range of natural formations and climates, from the desert-like southern coast to the snowcapped peaks of the Andes mountain range to the plains of the Amazon Basin. Cotopaxi in Ecuador is one of the world's highest active volcanos. It also has a large series of cliffs that follow the southern border and spill into the northwest area of Peru.
Politics of Ecuador: Politics of Ecuador takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Ecuador is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Congress. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Telecommunications in Ecuador: Telephones - main lines in use: 1,754,000 (Mar 2006). Telephones - mobile cellular:9,250,000 (2007). Telephone system: general assessment: generally elementary but being expanded domestic: facilities generally inadequate and unreliable international: satellite earth station - 1 Intelsat (Atlantic Ocean) There are 3 cell phone providers in Ecuador: Porta, Movistar and Alegro.
Economy of Ecuador: The economy of Ecuador is based mostly on exports of bananas, oil, shrimp, gold, other primary agricultural products and money transfers from nearly a million Ecuadorian immigrants employed abroad. In 2002, oil accounted for about one-third of public sector revenue and 40% of export earnings. Ecuador is the world's largest exporter of bananas ($936.5 million in 2002) and a major exporter of shrimp ($251 million in 2002).
Military of Ecuador: The Ecuadorian Armed Forces (Fuerzas Armadas del Ecuador) are part of the public forces and responsible for the preservation of the integrity and national sovereignty of the national territory. It involves participation in the social and economic development of the country and the provision of assistance in the maintenance of internal order. Some major tasks include; fighting organised crime, anti-narcotic operations, illegal immigration and FARC insurgency from Colombia.
Geography of Egypt: The Geography of Egypt can be split into two sections. Southwest Asia and North Africa Egypt has shorelines on the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea. It borders Libya to the west, Sudan to the south, and the Gaza Strip and Israel to the east. Egypt, covering 1,001,449 square kilometers of land, is about the same size as Texas and New Mexico combined, four times the size of the UK and double that of France.
Foreign relations of Ecuador: This article deals with the diplomatic affairs, foreign policy and international relations of Ecuador. Ecuador is a member of the United Nations and many of its specialized agencies, as well as the Organization of American States. It is also a member of many regional groups, including the Rio Group, the Latin American Economic System, the Latin American Energy Organization, the Latin American Integration Association, and the Andean Pact.
Demographics of Egypt: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Egypt, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Egypt is the most populous country in the Middle East and the second-most populous on the African continent. Nearly 100% of the country's 78,887,007 (2006 est.
Politics of Egypt: The government of Egypt consists of a semi-presidential republic whereby the president is both head of state and head of government, and of a system dominated by the National Democratic Party. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the People's Assembly.
Transport in Ecuador: total: 812 km (single track) narrow gauge: 812 km 3 ft 6 in (1,067 mm) gauge
Economy of Egypt: Import substitution and nationalization, 1952-1966, during which the first program of industrialization in 1957 was established and led by the public sector in heavy industries such as iron and steel and chemical industries. Nationalisation reduced the relative importance of the private sector. *Inter-War, 1967-1973, adversely affected the performance of the economy and public sector role in import substitution.
Communications in Egypt: Egypt has long been the cultural and informational centre of the Arab world, and Cairo is the region's largest publishing and broadcasting centre.
Egyptian Armed Forces: The Egyptian Air Force or EAF is the aviation branch of the Egyptian Armed Forces. Currently, the backbone of the EAF is the F-16. The EAF (planes and Pilot training) is considered to be the strongest in Africa and one of the strongest in the Middle East. The Mirage 2000 is the other modern interceptor used by the EAF. The Egyptian Airforce has 220 F-16s (plus 24 on order) making it the 4th largest operator of the F-16 in the World.
Foreign relations of Egypt: Egypt's foreign policy operates along a non-aligned level. Factors such as population size, historical events, military strength, diplomatic expertise and a strategic geographical position give Egypt extensive political influence in the Middle East, Africa, and within the Non-Aligned Movement as a whole. Cairo has been a crossroads of Arab commerce and culture for millennia, and its intellectual and Islamic institutions are at the center of the region's social and cultural development.
Transport in Egypt: Transport in Egypt is centered in Cairo and largely follow the pattern of settlement along the Nile. The main line of the nation's 4,800 kilometer (2,800 mile) railway network runs from Alexandria to Aswan and is operated by Egyptian National Railways. The badly maintained road network has expanded rapidly to over 21,000 miles, covering the Nile Valley and Nile Delta, Mediterranean and Red Sea coasts, the Sinai, and the Western oases.
El Salvador: El Salvador is the smallest and also the most densely populated country in Central America. It borders the Pacific Ocean between Guatemala and Honduras. It lies on the Gulf of Fonseca, as do Honduras and Nicaragua further south. It has a population of approximately 7.2 million people as of 2009. The capital city of San Salvador is, by some distance, the largest city of the republic. In 2001 El Salvador dropped its own currency, the col, and adopted the U.S. dollar instead.
Politics of El Salvador: Politics of El Salvador takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of El Salvador is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Legislative Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Geography of El Salvador: The geography of El Salvador is unique among the nations of Central America. The country borders the North Pacific Ocean to the south and southwest, with Guatemala to the north-northwest and Honduras to the north-northeast. In the southeast, the Golfo de Fonseca separates it from Nicaragua. El Salvador is the smallest Central American country in area and is the only one without a coastline on the Caribbean sea.
Demographics of El Salvador: This article is about the demographic features of the population of El Salvador, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. El Salvador's population numbers about 7,066,403 with 90% identifying as Mestizo (mixed Amerindian and European).
Armed Forces of El Salvador: The Armed Forces of El Salvador, in Spanish Fuerza Armada de El Salvador is the official name of the combined armed forces of El Salvador. It has been in existence since breaking up from the United Provinces of Central America in 1840. It consists of three branches: Army Navy (established 1952) Air Force
Foreign relations of El Salvador: El Salvador is a member of the United Nations and several of its specialized agencies, the Organization of American States (OAS), the Central American Common Market (CACM), the Central American Parliament (PARLACEN), and the Central American Integration System (SICA). It actively participates in the Central American Security Commission (CASC), which seeks to promote regional arms control.
History of Equatorial Guinea: The History of Equatorial Guinea is diverse and varied.
Telecommunications in El Salvador: File:Wiki letter w. svg Please help improve this article by expanding it. Further information might be found on the talk page.
Transport in El Salvador: total: 602 km (single track; all traffic suspended; note - some sections abandoned, unusable). Rehabilitation in progress narrow gauge: 602 km 3 ft (914 mm) gauge
Demographics of Equatorial Guinea: Population: 540,109 (July 2006 est. ) 551,201 (July 2007 est. ) 616,459 (July 2008 est. ) note: 2002 census results claim 1,015,000 residents, although this most likely was inflated in anticipation for the December election. Age structure: 0-14 years: 41.7% (male 113,083; female 111,989) 15-64 years: 54.5% (male 141,914; female 152,645) 65 years and over: 3.8% (male 8,886; female 11,592) (2006 est. ) Population growth rate: 2.05% (2006 est. ) Birth rate: 35.59 births/1,000 population (2006 est.
Equatorial Guinea: Equatorial Guinea, officially the Republic of Equatorial Guinea is a country located in Central Africa. With an area of 28,000 km it is one of the smallest countries in continental Africa. It is also the most prosperous, with gross per capita income on the level of some EU countries, ahead even of Libya and South Africa, two traditionally most developed African countries; this prosperity is recent, though. It has a population of 1,014,999.
Economy of Equatorial Guinea: Equatorial Guinea is a small country at the west coast of Central Africa. Despite a per capita GDP (PPP) of more than US$30,000 (CIA Factbook $50,200) which is as of 2008 the twentieth highest in the world, Equatorial Guinea ranks 121st out of 177 countries on the United Nations Human Development Index.
Politics of Equatorial Guinea: Politics of Equatorial Guinea takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President is both the head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Chamber of People's Representatives
Telecommunications in Equatorial Guinea: This article lists communications in Equatorial Guinea.
Transport in Equatorial Guinea: This article lists transport in Equatorial Guinea.
Foreign relations of Equatorial Guinea: Disputes - international: exclusive maritime economic zone boundary dispute with Cameroon is presently before the ICJ; maritime boundary dispute with Gabon because of disputed sovereignty over islands in Corisco Bay; maritime boundary dispute with Nigeria and Cameroon because of disputed jurisdiction over oil-rich areas in the Gulf of Guinea
Military of Equatorial Guinea: The military of Equatorial Guinea was reorganized in 1979. It consists of approximately 2,500 service members. The army has almost 1,400 soldiers, the police 400 paramilitary men, the navy 200 service members, and the air force about 120 members. There is also a Gendarmerie, but the number of members is unknown. The Gendarmerie is a new branch of the service in which training and education is being supported by the French Military Cooperation in Equatorial Guinea.
Geography of Equatorial Guinea: The Republic of Equatorial Guinea is located in west central Africa. Bioko Island lies about 40 kilometers (24.9 mi) from Cameroon. Annob Island lies about 595 kilometres (370 mi) southwest of Bioko Island. The larger continental region of Rio Muni lies between Cameroon and Gabon on the mainland; it includes the islands of Corisco, Elobey Grande, Elobey Chico, and adjacent islets.
History of Eritrea: Eritrea is an ancient name, associated in the past with its Greek form Erythraa, and its derived Latin form Erythr. In the past, Eritrea had given its name to the Red Sea, then called the Erythrn Sea. The Italians created the colony of Eritrea in the 19th century around Asmara, and named it with its current name. After World War II Eritrea was annexed to Ethiopia. In 1991 the People's Liberation Front defeated the Ethiopian government.
Economy of Eritrea: As of 2005, Eritrea is one of the poorest countries in the world. More than half of the population lives on less than US$1 per day, and about one-third lives in extreme poverty (defined as subsisting on less than 2,000 calories per day). Although the Eritrean government has stated its commitment to adoption of market-based economic policies in the long run, authorities are increasingly reliant on centrally planned economic management.
Demographics of Eritrea: Population: Age structure: 0-14 years: 42.9% (male 1,085,116/female 1,072,262) 15-64 years: 53.5% (male 1,332,349/female 1,355,494) 65 years and over: 3.6% (male 88,068/female 95,186) (2008 est. ) Population growth rate: 2.447% (2008 est. ) Birth rate: 33.62 births/1,000 population (2008 est. ) Death rate: 9.15 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est. ) Net migration rate: NA (2008 est.
Politics of Eritrea: Politics of Eritrea takes place in a framework of a single-party presidential republic, whereby the President of Eritrea is both head of state and head of government and a single-party state, led by the People's Front for Democracy and Justice. The National Assembly of 150 seats, formed in 1993 shortly after independence, elected the current president, Isaias Afewerki.
Geography of Eritrea: Location: Eastern Africa, bordering the Red Sea, between Djibouti and Sudan, also bordering on Ethiopia. Geographic coordinates: 1500N 3900E; / ;15 39; / 15; 39 Map references: Africa Area: total: 124 320 km land: 121 320 km water: 3 000 km Area - comparative: slightly larger than Pennsylvania Land boundaries: total: 1 630 km border countries: Djibouti 113 km, Ethiopia 912 km, Sudan 605 km Note that the border between Eritrea and Ethiopia is disputed.
Eritrean Defence Forces: The Eritrean Defence Forces military role stems from Eritrea's strategic geographical location. It is located on the Red Sea with a foothold on the Straits of Bab al-Mandeb.
Transport in Eritrea: This article summarizes characteristics of a number of forms of transport in the coastal African nation of Eritrea.
Telecommunications in Eritrea: Telephones - main lines in use: Telephones - mobile cellular: Telephone system: domestic: very inadequate; most telephones are in Asmara; government is seeking international tenders to improve the system international: NA Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 2, shortwave 2 (2000) Radios: 345,000 (1997) Television broadcast stations: Televisions: 1,000 (1997) Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 4 (2005) - EriTel, CTS, TFanus, Ewan Country code: ER
Foreign relations of Eritrea: Eritrea is a member of the African Union (AU), the successor of the Organization of African Unity (OAU) and is an observing member of the Arab League. But it has withdrawn its representative to the AU in protest of the AU's lack of leadership in the implementation of the demarcation the border between Eritrea and Ethiopia. Eritrea's relationship with the United States is complicated.
Demographics of Estonia: The demographics of Estonia in the 21st century are the result of historical trends over more than a thousand years, just as for most European countries, but have been disproportionately affected by events in the last half of the 20th century. Impact from the rise and fall of the Soviet Union, including the annexation and eventual independence of Estonia, has had a major effect on Estonia's ethnic makeup and educational achievement.
Politics of Estonia: Politics of Estonia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Estonia is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Legislative power is vested in the parliament. Executive power is exercised by the Government which is led by the Prime Minister. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. Estonian civil service is relatively young.
Transport in Estonia: Transport in Estonia relies mainly on road and rail network.
Economy of Estonia: Estonia is a member of the European Union and a developed market economy. Before the Second World War Estonia's economy was based on agriculture, but there was a significant knowledge sector (with Tartu known for scientific contributions) and growing industrial sector, similar to Finland. Products such as butter, milk and cheese were widely known on the western European markets. Main markets were Germany and United Kingdom, and only 3% of all commerce was with the neighbouring USSR.
Geography of Estonia: Between 57.3 and 59.5 latitude and 21.5 and 28.1 longitude, Estonia lies on the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea on the level northwestern part of the rising east European platform. It borders the Gulf of Finland, between Latvia and Russia. Average elevation reaches only 50 m (164 ft). The climate is maritime, wet, with moderate winters and cool summers.
Politics of Ethiopia: Politics of Ethiopia takes place in a framework of a federal parliamentary republic, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Federal legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament. The Judiciary is more or less independent of the executive and the legislature.
Foreign relations of Estonia: Following restoration of independence from the Soviet Union, Russia was one of the first nations to recognise Estonia's independence (the first country to do so was Iceland on 22 August 1991). Estonia's immediate priority after regaining its independence was the withdrawal of Russian (formerly Soviet) forces from Estonian territory. In August 1994, this was completed.
Economy of Ethiopia: The economy of Ethiopia is based on agriculture, which accounts for half of gross domestic product (GDP), 60% of exports, and 80% of total employment. Ethiopia has - almost uniquely in Africa - virtually no private sector business at all. There are no Patent Laws in Ethiopia. Many government owned properties during the previous regime have now been transferred to pro-government enterprises in the name of privatization.
Telecommunications in Estonia: This article's factual accuracy is disputed. The National Telecommunications act in the second period of Estonian independence granted a Monopoly on international and local fixed line telephony to Estonian Telecom (Eesti Telecom). In the process of privatization, a concession was granted to liberalize mobile, CATV and packet-switched telecommunications. This concession was critical for developing a competitive market.
Demographics of Ethiopia: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Ethiopia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Ethiopia's population is highly diverse. Most of its people speak a Semitic or Cushitic language. The Oromo, Amhara, and Tigrayans make up more than three-fourths of the population, but there are more than 80 different ethnic groups within Ethiopia.
Telecommunications in Ethiopia: Telecommunications in Ethiopia is currently a monopoly in the control of the Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation (ETC); all telephone service and internet access requires ETC to be involved. As of 2006, 866,700 cellular phones and 725,000 main line phones were in use.
Transport in Ethiopia: Transport infrastructure within Ethiopia is generally good, especially in the north, west, central and south of the country. Most of the roads and railways are now under construction, and will be done between 2011 and 2014.
Ethiopian National Defense Force: The Ethiopian National Defense Force (ENDF) is one of the largest military forces in Africa along with Egypt,Eritrea and Morocco, 29th largest in the world. Civil direction of the military is carried out through the Ministry of Defense. The MOD is the Ethiopian government ministry which oversees the ground, and air as well as military industry. The current Minister is Siraj Fergessa. ENDF force sizes have recently varied considerably in light of the end of the war with Eritrea in 2000.
Foreign relations of Ethiopia: Like many states in sub-Saharan Africa, Ethiopia was relatively isolated from other countries not immediately adjacent to it, until well into the 19th century. Many historians trace modern Ethiopian foreign policy to the reign of Emperor Tewodros II, whose primary concerns were the security of Ethiopia's traditional borders, obtaining technology from Europe (or modernization), and to a lesser degree Ethiopian rights to the monastery of Dar-es-Sultan in the city of Jerusalem.
Euclidean geometry: Euclidean geometry is a mathematical system attributed to the Alexandrian Greek mathematician Euclid, whose Elements is the earliest known systematic discussion of geometry. Euclid's method consists in assuming a small set of intuitively appealing axioms, and deducing many other propositions from these. Although many of Euclid's results had been stated by earlier mathematicians, Euclid was the first to show how these propositions could be fit into a comprehensive deductive and logical system.
Epic poetry: An epic (from the Ancient Greek adjective , from "word, story, poem") is a lengthy narrative poem, ordinarily concerning a serious subject containing details of heroic deeds and events significant to a culture or nation. Oral poetry may qualify as an epic, and Albert Lord and Milman Parry have argued that classical epics were fundamentally an oral poetic form.
Europa Island: Europa Island is a 28 km low-lying tropical island in the Mozambique Channel, about a third of the way from southern Madagascar to southern Mozambique, at 222206S 402148E; / ;22.36833 40.36333; / -22.36833; 40.36333Coordinates: 222206S 402148E; / ;22.36833 40.36333; / -22.36833; 40.36333. It has 22.2 kilometres of coastline, but no ports or harbours. Anchorage is possible offshore. The airstrip is 1,500 metres long.
Eocene: The Eocene Epoch, lasting from about 56 to 34 million years ago (55.8 0.2 to 33.9 0.1 Ma), is a major division of the geologic timescale and the second epoch of the Palaeogene Period in the Cenozoic Era. The Eocene spans the time from the end of the Paleocene Epoch to the beginning of the Oligocene Epoch. The start of the Eocene is marked by the emergence of the first modern mammals.
Helsing r: Elsinore redirects here. For other places and things named Elsinore, see Elsinore. Helsing (in English also known as Elsinore) is a city and the municipal seat of Helsing municipality on the northeast coast of the island of Zealand (Sjland) in eastern Denmark. Helsing has a population of 46,101 (1 January 2009) including the southern suburbs of Snekkersten and Espergde.
Eindhoven: Eindhoven is a municipality and a city located in the province of Noord-Brabant in the south of the Netherlands, originally at the confluence of the Dommel and Gender streams. The Gender was dammed off in the post-war years, but the Dommel still runs through the city. Neighbouring cities and towns include Son en Breugel, Nuenen, Geldrop-Mierlo, Heeze-Leende, Waalre, Veldhoven, Eersel, Oirschot and Best. The agglomeration has some 440,000 inhabitants.
Ericsson: Ericsson (Telefonaktiebolaget L. M. Ericsson), one of the largest Swedish companies, is a provider of telecommunication and data communication systems, and related services covering a range of technologies, including especially mobile networks. Directly and through subsidiaries, it also has a major role in mobile devices and cable TV and IPTV systems. Founded in 1876 as a telegraph equipment repair shop by Lars Magnus Ericsson, it was incorporated on August 18, 1918.
Electromagnetic radiation: Electromagnetic radiation (often abbreviated E-M radiation or EMR) is a phenomenon that takes the form of self-propagating waves in a vacuum or in matter. It consists of electric and magnetic field components which oscillate in phase perpendicular to each other and perpendicular to the direction of energy propagation.
Ethology: Ethology is the scientific study of animal behavior, and a sub-topic of zoology. Although many naturalists have studied aspects of animal behavior throughout history, the modern discipline of ethology is generally considered to have begun during the 1930s with the work of Dutch biologist Nikolaas Tinbergen and Austrian biologist Konrad Lorenz, joint winners of the 1973 Nobel Prize in medicine.
The Time in Between: The Time in Between is a novel by Canadian author David Bergen. It deals with a man named Charles Boatman, who mysteriously returns to Vietnam, where he had been a soldier earlier in his life, and his children, Ada and Jon, who also go to Vietnam to search for him. Although generally called a war novel, the author states that he "[doesn't] see The Time in Between as a war novel". The Time in Between was the recipient of the 2005 Scotiabank Giller Prize.
Young and Innocent: Young and Innocent is a 1937 British film directed by Alfred Hitchcock and starring Nova Pilbeam, Derrick De Marney and John Longden. It is very loosely based on Josephine Tey's novel A Shilling for Candles (1936).
Ernest Hemingway: Ernest Miller Hemingway (July 21, 1899 - July 2, 1961) was an American writer and journalist. During his lifetime he had seven novels, six collections of short stories, and two works of non-fiction published, with a further three novels, four collections of short stories, and three non-fiction autobiographical works published after his death.
Egyptian Lover: Greg Broussard (born August 31, 1963 in Los Angeles, California), better known by his stage name Egyptian Lover is an American musician, vocalist, producer and DJ, and was an important part of the L.A. dance music and rap scene in the early 1980s.
The Downward Spiral: The Downward Spiral is the second full length studio album by American industrial rock act Nine Inch Nails, released in 1994 on Trent Reznor's own Nothing Records. "Halo 8" of the official Nine Inch Nails halo releases, it is a concept album detailing the destruction of a man, from the beginning of his "Downward Spiral" to his climactic suicide. The Downward Spiral features elements of industrial rock, techno, and metal music, in contrast to the dance-influenced Pretty Hate Machine (1989).
Spain in Flames: Spain in Flames is a compilation film made by Helen van Dongen during the Spanish Civil War. Hal Erickson has written that the film "... is remarkable in its willingness to offer both sides of the conflict -- though its sympathies are firmly with the Loyalists. " The film consists of two parts. The first, "The Fight for Freedom", was based on film from a Spanish government documentary Spain and the Fight for Freedom.
Electrical telegraph: The electrical telegraph is a telegraph that uses electric signals. The electromagnetic telegraph is a device for human-to-human transmission of coded text messages over wire. The electrical telegraph replaced such optical telegraphy systems as those designed by Claude Chappe for the French military, and Friedrich Clemens Gerke for the Prussian military.
Establishing shot: In film and television, an establishing shot sets up, or "establishes", a scene's setting and/or its participants. Typically it is a shot at the beginning (or, occasionally, end) of a scene indicating where, and sometimes when, the remainder of the scene takes place. For example, an exterior shot of a building at night, followed by an interior shot of people talking, implies that the conversation is taking place at night inside that building.
Etruscan language: The Etruscan language was spoken and written by the Etruscan civilization in what is now present day Italy, in the ancient region of Etruria and in parts of Lombardy, Veneto, and Emilia-Romagna (where the Etruscans were displaced by Gauls). Latin, however, superseded Etruscan completely, leaving only a few documents and a few loanwords in Latin e.g. , persona from Etruscan rsu, and some place-names, such as Roma.
Election: An election is a formal decision-making process by which a population chooses an individual to hold public office. Elections have been the usual mechanism by which modern representative democracy operates since the 17th century. Elections may fill offices in the legislature, sometimes in the executive and judiciary, and for regional and local government. This process is also used in many other private and business organizations, from clubs to voluntary associations and corporations.
Enniskillen: Enniskillen is the county town (and largest town) in County Fermanagh. It is located almost exactly in the centre of the county between the Upper and Lower sections of Lough Erne. It had a population of 13,599 in the 2001 Census. It is also the seat of local government for Fermanagh District Council.
Longest word in English: The identity of the longest word in English depends upon the definition of what constitutes a word in the English language, as well as how length should be compared. In addition to words derived naturally from the language's roots (without any known intentional invention), English allows new words to be formed by coinage and construction; place names may be considered words; technical terms may be arbitrarily long.
Eric S. Raymond: Eric Steven Raymond (born December 4, 1957), often referred to as ESR, is a computer programmer, author and open source software advocate. His name became known within the hacker culture when he picked up maintenance of the "Jargon File" in 1990. After the 1997 publication of "The Cathedral and the Bazaar", Raymond became, for a number of years, an unofficial spokesman of the open source movement.
European route E4: European route E 4 passes from north to south through Sweden from the border with Finland, total length 1,590 kilometres (990 mi). The Finnish part lies entirely within Tornio in northern Finland, and is actually only 800 metres (0.50 mi) long.
English words with uncommon properties: For the purposes of this article, any word which has appeared in a recognised general English dictionary published in the 20th century or later is considered a candidate. For interest, some archaic words, non-standard words and proper names are also included. The TREATMENT of words of foreign origin can be problematic. The entire history of English involves influence and loanwords from other languages, and this process continues today.
Externalization: Externalization means to put something outside of its original borders, especially to put a human function outside of the human body. The opposite of externalization is internalization. In a concrete sense, by taking notes, we can externalize the function of memory which normally belongs in the brain. In a more abstract sense, by inventing excuses, we can externalize the guilt associated with our actions.
European Central Bank: The European Central Bank (ECB) is the institution of the European Union (EU) tasked with administrating the monetary policy of the 16 EU member states taking part in the Eurozone. It is thus one of the world's most important central banks. The bank was established by the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1998, and is headquartered in Frankfurt, Germany. The current President of the ECB is Jean-Claude Trichet.
Europium: Europium is a chemical element with the symbol Eu and atomic number 63. It was named after the continent of Europe.
Erbium: Erbium is a chemical element with the symbol Er and atomic number 68. A rare, silvery, white metallic lanthanide, erbium is solid in its normal state. It is a rare earth element associated with several other rare elements in the mineral gadolinite from Ytterby in Sweden. Erbium's principal uses involve its pink-colored ions, which have optical fluorescent properties particularly useful in certain laser applications.
Euro: The euro is the official currency of the European Union (EU), and is currently in use in 16 of the 27 Member States. The states, known collectively as the Eurozone, are Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain. The currency is also used in a further five European countries, with and without formal agreements, and is consequently used daily by some 327 million Europeans.
Einsteinium: Einsteinium is a metallic synthetic element. On the periodic table, it is represented by the symbol Es and atomic number 99. It is the seventh transuranic element, and an actinide. It was named in honor of Albert Einstein. Its position on the periodic table indicates that its chemical and physical properties are similar to other metals. Though only small amounts have been made, it has been determined to be silver-colored.
Electron: The electron is a subatomic particle that carries a negative electric charge. It has no known components or substructure, and therefore is believed to be an elementary particle. An electron has a mass that is approximately 1/1836 that of the proton. The intrinsic angular momentum of the electron is a half integer value of , which means that it is a fermion.
Edmund Stoiber: Edmund Rdiger Stoiber (born 28 September 1941) is a German politician, former minister-president of the state of Bavaria and former chairman of the Christian Social Union (CSU). On 18 January 2007, he announced his decision to step down from the posts of minister-president and party chairman by 30 September, after having been under fire in his own party for weeks.
Erfurt: Erfurt is the capital city of Thuringia and is the main city nearest to the geographical centre of Germany, located 100 km SW of Leipzig, 150 km N of Nrnberg and 180 km SE of Hannover. Erfurt Airport can be reached by plane via Munich. It lies in the southern part of the Thuringian Basin, within the wide valley of Gera River, a tributary of the Unstrut. To the south, the city is surrounded by the hilly forest of Steigerwald.
East Berlin: East Berlin was the name given to the eastern part of Berlin between 1949 and 1990. It consisted of the Soviet sector of Berlin that was established in 1945. The American, British and French sectors became West Berlin, a de facto part of West Germany. Despite its status as part of an occupied city, East Berlin was claimed as the capital of East Germany. From 13 August 1961 until 9 November 1989 East Berlin was separated from West Berlin by the Berlin Wall.
Enya: Eithne Patricia N Bhraonn (born 17 May 1961), better known as Enya, is an Irish vocalist, instrumentalist and composer. Her name is sometimes presented in the media as Enya Brennan; Enya is an approximate transliteration of how Eithne is pronounced in the Irish language, her native tongue. She began her musical career in 1980, when she briefly joined her family band Clannad, before leaving to pursue her solo career.
List of international environmental agreements: This is a list of international environmental agreements. Most of the following agreements are legally binding.
Epiphenomenalism: In philosophy of mind, epiphenomenalism, also known as 'Type-E Dualism', is a view according to which some or all mental states are mere epiphenomena (side-effects or by-products) of physical states of the world. Thus, epiphenomenalism denies that the mind (as in its states, not its processing) has any influence on the body or any other part of the physical world: while mental states are caused by physical states, mental states do not have any influence on physical states.
Eta: Eta is the seventh letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals it has a value of 8. Letters that arose from Eta include the Latin H and the Cyrillic letter . In, represents a close front unrounded vowel, /i/. In Classical Greek, it represented a long open-mid front unrounded vowel, //.
Epsilon: Epsilon is the fifth letter of the Greek alphabet, corresponding phonetically to a close-mid front unrounded vowel /e/. In the system of Greek numerals it has a value of 5. It was derived from the Phoenician letter He . Letters that arose from Epsilon include the Roman E and Cyrillic Ye. "Epsilon" ( , "simple e") was coined in the Middle Ages to distinguish the letter from the diphthong , which started being pronounced the same way during the period of New Testament Greek.
Eskimo: Eskimos or Esquimaux are indigenous peoples who have traditionally inhabited the circumpolar region from eastern Siberia, across Alaska and Canada, and Greenland. There are two main groups that are referred to as Eskimo: Yupik and Inuit. A third group, the Aleut, is related. The Yupik language dialects and cultures in Alaska and eastern Siberia have evolved in place beginning with the original Eskimo culture that developed in Alaska.
Esperantujo: Esperantujo or Esperantio is a term (meaning "Esperantoland") used by speakers of the constructed international auxiliary language Esperanto to refer to the Esperanto community and the activities going on in the language. When two people are speaking Esperanto, they are said to be "in" Esperantujo. The word is formed analogously to country names.
List of explorations: Some of the most important explorations of Western civilization (in chronological order):
Ethernet: Ethernet is a family of frame-based computer networking technologies for local area networks (LANs). The name comes from the physical concept of the ether. It defines a number of wiring and signaling standards for the Physical Layer of the OSI networking model as well as a common addressing format and Media Access Control at the Data Link Layer. Ethernet is standardized as IEEE 802.3.
E. P. Thompson: Edward Palmer Thompson (February 3, 1924, Oxford - August 28, 1993, Worcester), was an English historian, writer, socialist and peace campaigner. He is probably best known today for his historical work on the British radical movements in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, in particular The Making of the English Working Class (1963). He also published influential biographies of William Morris (1955) and (posthumously) William Blake (1993) and was a prolific journalist and essayist.
Elias Canetti: Elias Canetti was a Bulgarian-born novelist and non-fiction writer of Sephardi Jewish ancestry who wrote in German. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1981.
Endometrium: The endometrium is the inner membrane of the mammalian uterus.
Edward Jenner: Edward Anthony Jenner (17 May 1749 - 26 January 1823) was an English scientist who studied his natural surroundings in Berkeley, Gloucestershire. Jenner is widely credited as the pioneer of smallpox vaccine, and is sometimes referred to as the 'Father of Immunology'. Jenner's discovery 'has saved more lives than the work of any other man'.
Encyclop dia Britannica: The Encyclopia Britannica (Latin for "the British Encyclopia") is a general English-language encyclopaedia published by Encyclopia Britannica, Inc. , a privately held company. The articles in the Britannica are aimed at educated adult readers, and written by a staff of about 100 full-time editors and more than 4,000 expert contributors. It is widely regarded as the most scholarly of encyclopaedias. The Britannica is the oldest English-language encyclopia still in print.
Electronic music: Electronic music is music that employs electronic musical instruments and electronic music technology in its production. In general a distinction can be made between sound produced using electromechanical means and that produced using electronic technology. Examples of electromechanical sound producing devices include the telharmonium, Hammond organ, and the electric guitar. Purely electronic sound production can be achieved using devices such as the Theremin, sound synthesizer, and computer.
Edvard Grieg: Edvard Hagerup Grieg (15 June 1843 - 4 September 1907) was a Norwegian composer and pianist who composed in the Romantic period. He is best known for his Piano Concerto in A minor, for his incidental music to Henrik Ibsen's play Peer Gynt, and for his collection of piano miniatures Lyric Pieces.
Exeter disambiguation: Exeter is the county town of Devon. It may also refer to:
Emancipation Proclamation: The Emancipation Proclamation consists of two executive orders issued by United States President Abraham Lincoln during the American Civil War. The first one, issued September 22, 1862, declared the freedom of all slaves in any state of the Confederate States of America that did not return to Union control by January 1, 1863. The second order, issued January 1, 1863, named ten specific states where it would apply.
Edmund Husserl: Edmund Gustav Albrecht Husserl was a philosopher who is deemed the founder of phenomenology. He broke with the positivist orientation of the science and philosophy of his day, believing that experience is the source of all knowledge, while at the same time he elaborated critiques of psychologism and historicism. Born into a Moravian Jewish family, he was baptized as a Lutheran in 1887. Husserl studied mathematics under Karl Weierstrass, completing a Ph.D.
Erwin Rommel: Erwin Johannes Eugen Rommel (15 November 1891 - 14 October 1944), popularly known as the Desert Fox, was a famous German Field Marshal of World War II. He was a highly decorated officer in World War I, awarded the Pour le Mite for his exploits on the Italian front. In World War II, he further distinguished himself as the commander of the Ghost Division during the 1940 invasion of France.
Electrical engineering: Electrical engineering, often referred to as the electrical and electronic engineering (EEE), is a field of engineering that generally deals with the study and application of electricity, electronics and electromagnetism.
Electromagnetism: Electromagnetism is one of the four fundamental interactions of nature. It is the force that causes the interaction between electrically charged particles; the areas in which this happens are called electromagnetic fields. Electromagnetism is the force responsible for practically all the phenomena encountered in daily life (with the exception of gravity).
Euphemism: A euphemism is a substitution of an agreeable or less offensive expression in place of one that may offend or suggest something unpleasant to the receiver, or to make it less troublesome for the speaker, as in the case of doublespeak. The deployment of euphemisms is a central aspect within the public application of political correctness.
Electricity generation: Electricity generation is the process of creating electricity from other forms of energy. The fundamental principles of electricity generation were discovered during the 1820s and early 1830s by the British scientist Michael Faraday. His basic method is still used today: electricity is generated by the movement of a loop of wire, or disc of copper between the poles of a magnet. For electric utilities, it is the first process in the delivery of electricity to consumers.
Design of experiments: In general usage, design of experiments, or experimental design, (DoE) is the design of any information-gathering exercises where variation is present, whether under the full control of the experimenter or not. However, in statistics, these terms are usually used for controlled experiments. Other types of study, and their design, are discussed in the articles on opinion polls and statistical surveys (which are types of observational study), natural experiments and quasi-experiments.
Empirical research: Empirical research is research that derives its data by means of direct observation or experiment, such research is used to answer a question or test a hypothesis, i.e. does something such as a type of medical treatment work? The results are based upon actual evidence as opposed to theory or conjecture, as such they can be replicated in follow-up studies. Empirical research articles are published in peer-reviewed journals.
Engineering statistics: Engineering statistics is a branch of statistics that has several subtopics which are particular to engineering: Design of Experiments (DOE) uses statistical techniques to test and construct models of engineering components and systems. Quality control and process control use statistics as a tool to manage conformance to specifications of manufacturing processes and their products.
Edmund Spenser: Edmund Spenser (c. 1552 - 13 January 1599) was an English poet best known for The Faerie Queene, an epic poem and fantastical allegory celebrating the Tudor dynasty and Elizabeth I. He is recognized as one of the premier craftsmen of Modern English verse in its infancy, and is one of the very greatest poets in the English language.
Empedocles: Empedocles was a Greek pre-Socratic philosopher and a citizen of Agrigentum, a Greek city in Sicily. Empedocles' philosophy is best known for being the origin of the cosmogenic theory of the four Classical elements. He also proposed powers called Love and Strife which would act as forces to bring about the mixture and separation of the elements. These physical speculations were part of a history of the universe which also dealt with the origin and development of life.
Edgar Allan Poe: Edgar Allan Poe (January 19, 1809 - October 7, 1849) was an American writer, poet, editor and literary critic, considered part of the American Romantic Movement. Best known for his tales of mystery and the macabre, Poe was one of the earliest American practitioners of the short story and is considered the inventor of the detective-fiction genre. He is further credited with contributing to the emerging genre of science fiction.
Ericaceae: Ericaceae, the heath family or the heather family is a plant family, comprising mostly calcifuge plants that thrive in acidic soils. Many well-known plants of the Ericaceae live in temperate climates, such as cranberry, blueberry, various heaths and heathers, huckleberry, azalea and rhododendron. However, the family also contains many tropical species.
Electricity: Electricity is a general term that encompasses a variety of phenomena resulting from the presence and flow of electric charge. These include many easily recognizable phenomena, such as lightning and static electricity, but in addition, less familiar concepts, such as the electromagnetic field and electromagnetic induction. In general usage, the word "electricity" is adequate to refer to a number of physical effects.
Electrical network: An electrical network is an interconnection of electrical elements such as resistors, inductors, capacitors, transmission lines, voltage sources, current sources, and switches. An electrical circuit is a network that has a closed loop, giving a return path for the current. A network is a connection of two or more components, and may not necessarily be a circuit.
Empty set: In mathematics, and more specifically set theory, the empty set is the unique set having no elements; its size is zero. Some axiomatic set theories assure that the empty set exists by including an axiom of empty set; in other theories, its existence can be deduced. Many possible properties of sets are trivially true for the empty set. Null set was once a common synonym for "empty set", but is now a technical term in measure theory.
Essex: Essex is a ceremonial and non-metropolitan county in the East of England region of the United Kingdom, and one of the home counties. It is located to the northeast of Greater London and is one of the most populous counties in England. Essex County Council is the principal local authority for much of the county, sharing functions with twelve district councils. The county town is Chelmsford.
Endomorphism: In mathematics, an endomorphism is a morphism from a mathematical object to itself. For example, an endomorphism of a vector space V is a linear map: V V, and an endomorphism of a group G is a group homomorphism: G G. In general, we can talk about endomorphisms in any category. In the category of sets, endomorphisms are simply functions from a set S into itself. In any category, the composition of any two endomorphisms of X is again an endomorphism of X.
Euler disambiguation: Euler may refer to: Leonhard Euler, a Swiss mathematician and physicist Carl Euler, a biologist Ulf von Euler, a Swedish physiologist and pharmacologist, Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1970. Hans von Euler-Chelpin, a Swedish biochemist, Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1929. Euler (programming language), a computer programming language created by Niklaus Wirth and Helmut Weber based on ALGOL.
Eric Hoffer: Eric Hoffer (July 25, 1902 - May 21, 1983) was an American social writer and philosopher. He produced ten books and was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in February 1983 by President of the United States Ronald Reagan. His first book, The True Believer, published in 1951, was widely recognized as a classic, receiving critical acclaim from both scholars and laymen, although Hoffer believed that his book The Ordeal of Change was his finest work.
European Community: The European Community (EC) was the first of the three pillars of the European Union (EU) between 1992 and 2009. Created by the Maastricht Treaty (1992), it was based upon the principle of supranationalism and had its origins in the European Economic Community, the predecessor of the European Union. The Treaty of Lisbon abolished the entire pillar system when it came into effect in December 2009.
European Coal and Steel Community: The European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) was a six-nation international organisation serving to unify Western Europe during the Cold War and create the foundation for the modern-day developments of the European Union. The ECSC was the first organisation to be based on the principles of supranationalism. The ECSC was first proposed by French foreign minister Robert Schuman on 9 May 1950 as a way to prevent further war between France and Germany.
European Economic Community: The European Economic Community (EEC) (also referred to as simply the European Community, or the Common Market in the English-speaking world) was an international organization that existed between 1958 and 1993 which was created to bring about economic integration between Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands.
EFTA disambiguation: EFTA may refer to: European Family Therapy Association, an NGO. European Fair Trade Association, an association of eleven Fair Trade importers in nine European countries. European Federation of Taiwanese Associations, a federation, which combines several associations by Taiwanese people in each European country. European Free Trade Association, a European trade bloc which was established as an alternative for European states who did not join the then-European Economic Community.
European Free Trade Association: The European Free Trade Association (EFTA) is a free trade organisation between four European countries that operates parallel, and is linked to, the European Union (EU). EFTA was established on 3 May 1960 as a trade bloc-alternative for European states who were either unable to, or chose not to, join the then-European Economic Community (EEC) which has now become the European Union (EU). The Stockholm Convention, establishing EFTA, was signed on 4 January 1960 in Stockholm by seven countries.
European Council: The European Council is the institution of the European Union (EU) responsible for defining the general political direction and priorities of the Union.. It comprises the heads of state or government of EU member states, along with its President and the President of the Commission. The High Representative takes part in its meetings, which are chaired by its President: currently Herman Van Rompuy.
Elementary group theory: The group must obey the following rules. Let be arbitrary elements of . Then: A1, Closure. . A2, Associativity. . A3, Identity. There exists an identity element such that . The identity of is unique by Theorem 1.4 below. A4, Inverse. For each, there exists an inverse element such that . The inverse of is unique by Theorem 1.5 below. An abelian group also obeys the additional rule: A5, Commutativity. . Closure is part of the definition of "binary operation," so that A1 is often omitted.
Euthanasia: Euthanasia refers to the practice of ending a life in a painless manner. According to the House of Lords Select Committee on Medical Ethics, the precise definition of euthanasia is "a deliberate intervention undertaken with the express intention of ending a life, to relieve intractable suffering".
Extraterrestrial life: Extraterrestrial life is defined as life which does not originate from planet Earth. The word "extraterrestrial" is derived from the Latin extra ("outside", "outwards") and terrestris ("earthly", "of or relating to the Earth"). The existence of such life is theoretical and all assertions about it remain disputed. Hypotheses regarding the origin(s) of extraterrestrial life, if it exists, are as follows: one proposes that it may have emerged, independently, from different places in the universe.
ESPRIT: ESPRIT (European Strategic Program on Research in Information Technology) was a series of integrated programmes of IT research and development projects and industrial technology transfer measures. It was a European Union initiative managed by the Directorate General for Industry (DG III) of the European Commission. Five ESPRIT programes (ESPRIT 0 to ESPRIT 4) ran consecutively from 1983 to 1998. ESPRIT 4 was succeeded by the Information Society Technologies (IST) programme in 1999.
E. E. Cummings: Edward Estlin Cummings (October 14, 1894 - September 3, 1962), popularly known as E. E. Cummings, with the abbreviated form of his name often written by others in lowercase letters as e. e. cummings (in the style of some of his poems), was an American poet, painter, essayist, author, and playwright. His body of work encompasses approximately 2,900 poems, two autobiographical novels, four plays and several essays, as well as numerous drawings and paintings.
East River: The East River is a tidal strait in New York City. It connects Upper New York Bay on its south end to Long Island Sound on its north end. It separates Long Island from the island of Manhattan and the Bronx on the North American mainland. In reference to its connection to Long Island Sound, it was once also known as the Sound River.
European Parliament: The European Parliament (Europarl or EP) is the directly elected parliamentary institution of the European Union (EU). Together with the Council of the European Union (the Council), it forms the bicameral legislative branch of the EU and has been described as one of the most powerful legislatures in the world. The Parliament and Council form the highest legislative body within the Union.
Existentialism: Existentialism is a term applied to the work of a number of 19th- and 20th-century philosophers who, despite profound doctrinal differences, generally held that the focus of philosophical thought should be to deal with the conditions of existence of the individual person and their emotions, actions, responsibilities, and thoughts.
Ellipsis: Ellipsis is a mark or series of marks that usually indicate an intentional omission of a word or a phrase from the original text. An ellipsis can also be used to indicate a pause in speech, an unfinished thought, or, at the end of a sentence, a trailing off into silence (apostrophe and elipsis mixed). The ellipsis calls for a slight pause in speech. The most common form of an ellipsis is a row of three periods or full stops (... ) or pre-composed triple-dot glyph ().
Enola Gay: The Enola Gay is the B-29 Superfortress bomber that dropped the first atomic bomb, code-named "Little Boy", to be used in war, by the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) in the attack on Hiroshima, Japan on 6 August 1945, just before the end of World War II. The B-29 was named after Enola Gay Tibbets, the mother of the pilot, Paul Tibbets.
Electrochemistry: Electrochemistry is a branch of chemistry that studies chemical reactions which take place in a solution at the interface of an electron conductor and an ionic conductor, and which involve electron transfer between the electrode and the electrolyte or species in solution. If a chemical reaction is driven by an external applied voltage, as in electrolysis, or if a voltage is created by a chemical reaction as in a battery, it is an electrochemical reaction.
Ernest Rutherford: Ernest Rutherford, 1st Baron Rutherford of Nelson, OM, FRS (30 August 1871-19 October 1937) was a New Zealand chemist and physicist who became known as the father of nuclear physics. In early work he discovered the concept of radioactive half life, proved that radioactivity involved the transmutation of one chemical element to another, and also differentiated and named alpha and beta radiation.
Many-worlds interpretation: Many-worlds is an interpretation of quantum mechanics that asserts the objective reality of the wavefunction, but denies the reality of wavefunction collapse. It is also known as MWI, the relative state formulation, theory of the universal wavefunction, parallel universes, many-universes interpretation or just many worlds. The original relative state formulation is due to Hugh Everett who formulated it in 1957.
Edinburgh: Edinburgh (is the capital city of Scotland. It is the second largest city in Scotland and the seventh-most populous in the United Kingdom. The City of Edinburgh Council is one of Scotland's 32 local government council areas. The city council area includes urban Edinburgh and a 30-square-mile rural area. Located in the south-east of Scotland, Edinburgh lies on the east coast of the Central Belt, along the Firth of Forth, near the North Sea.
Ergonomics: Ergonomics is the science of designing the job, equipment, and workplace to fit the worker. Proper ergonomic design is necessary to prevent repetitive strain injuries, which can develop over time and can lead to long-term disability. The International Ergonomics Association defines ergonomics as follows: Ergonomics is employed to fulfill the two goals of health and productivity. It is relevant in the design of such things as safe furniture and easy-to-use interfaces to machines.
Electronic commerce: Electronic commerce, commonly known as (electronic marketing) e-commerce or eCommerce, consists of the buying and selling of products or services over electronic systems such as the Internet and other computer networks. The amount of trade conducted electronically has grown extraordinarily with widespread Internet usage.
Euler's formula: Euler's formula, named after Leonhard Euler, is a mathematical formula in complex analysis that demonstrates the deep relationship between the trigonometric functions and the complex exponential function. Euler's formula states that, for any real number x,: where e is the base of the natural logarithm, i is the imaginary unit, and cos and sin are the trigonometric functions cosine and sine respectively, with the argument x given in radians.
Eductor-jet pump: A eductor-jet pump is a type of pump where the energy from one fluid (liquid or gas) is transferred to another fluid via the venturi effect. As the fluid passes through a tapered jet, kinetic energy increases and pressure decreases drawing fluid from the suction into the flow stream.
Evolutionarily stable strategy: In game theory and behavioural ecology, an evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) is a strategy which, if adopted by a population of players, cannot be invaded by any alternative strategy that is initially rare. An ESS is an equilibrium refinement of the Nash equilibrium -- it is a Nash equilibrium which is "evolutionarily" stable meaning that once it is fixed in a population, natural selection alone is sufficient to prevent alternative strategies from successfully invading.
Extremophile: An extremophile (from Latin extremus meaning "extreme" and Greek phili meaning "love") is an organism that thrives in and even may require physically or geochemically extreme conditions that are detrimental to the majority of life on Earth. In contrast, organisms, from moderate temperature or neutral pH environments may be termed mesophiles or neutrophiles.
 douard Manet: ouard Manet, 23 January 1832 - 30 April 1883, was a French painter. One of the first nineteenth century artists to approach modern-life subjects, he was a pivotal figure in the transition from Realism to Impressionism. His early masterworks The Luncheon on the Grass and Olympia engendered great controversy, and served as rallying points for the young painters who would create Impressionism. Today these are considered watershed paintings that mark the genesis of modern art.
Electronvolt: In physics, the electron volt (symbol eV; also written electronvolt) is a unit of energy equal to approximately 1.60210 J. By definition, it is equal to the amount of kinetic energy gained by a single unbound electron when it accelerates through an electric potential difference of one volt. Thus it is 1 volt multiplied by the electron charge. Therefore, one electron volt is equal to 1.60217653(14)10 J. The electron volt is not an SI unit and its value must be obtained experimentally.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning: Elizabeth Barrett Browning (March 6, 1806 - June 29, 1861) was one of the most prominent poets of the Victorian era. Her poetry was widely popular in both England and the United States during her lifetime. A collection of her last poems was published by her husband shortly after her death.
Eugene Oregon: Eugene is the second-largest city in the U.S. state of Oregon and the county seat of Lane County. It is located at the south end of the Willamette Valley, at the confluence of the McKenzie and Willamette rivers, about 50 miles (86 km) east of the Oregon Coast. As of 2008, Eugene had a population of 154,620, and the greater Eugene-Springfield metropolitan statistical area (MSA) had a population of 346,560.
Ellensburg Washington: Ellensburg is a city in, and the county seat of, Kittitas County, Washington, United States. The population was 15,414 at the 2000 census. This number includes the college student population, which accounts for roughly 9,000. Ellensburg is located just east of the Cascade Range on I-90. Ellensburg is the home of Central Washington University (CWU). The surrounding Kittitas Valley is internationally known for the timothy-hay that it produces.
Enlil: Enlil (nlin), (EN = Lord + LIL = Loft, "Lord of the Open" or "Lord of the Wind") was the name of a chief deity listed and written about in ancient Sumerian, Akkadian, Hittite, Canaanite and other Mesopotamian clay and stone tablets. The name is perhaps pronounced and sometimes rendered in translations as Ellil in later Akkadian, Hittite, and Canaanite literature. Enlil was considered to be the god of breath, wind, loft, and breadth.
Ecosystem: The term ecosystem refers to the combined physical and biological components of an environment. An ecosystem is generally an area within the natural environment in which physical factors of the environment, such as rocks and soil, function together along with interdependent organisms, such as plants and animals, within the same habitat. Ecosystems can be permanent or temporary. Ecosystems usually form a number of food webs.
English country dance: English Country Dance is a form of folk dance. It is a social dance form, which has earliest documented instances in the late 16th century. Queen Elizabeth I of England is noted to have been entertained by "Country Dancing," although the relationship of the dances she saw to the surviving dances of the mid-17th century is disputed. English Country Dance (ECD) was popular well into the Baroque and Regency eras. Whereas several figures common to English Country Dance, e.g.
E mathematical constant: The mathematical constant e is the unique real number such that the value of the derivative (slope of the tangent line) of the function f(x) = e at the point x = 0 is exactly 1. The function e so defined is called the exponential function, and its inverse is the natural logarithm, or logarithm to base e.
Ecology: The scientific discipline of ecology encompasses areas from global processes (above), to the study of marine and terrestrial habitats (middle) to interspecific interactions such as predation and pollination (below). Ecology is the interdisciplinary scientific study of the distributions, abundance and relations of organisms and their interactions with the environment. Ecology is also the study of ecosystems.
Epimenides paradox: The Epimenides paradox is a problem in logic. It is named after the Cretan philosopher Epimenides of Knossos (alive circa 600 BC), There is no single statement of the problem; a typical variation is given in the book Gel, Escher, Bach, by Douglas Hofstadter: Epimenides was a Cretan who made one immortal statement: "All Cretans are liars. " It is commonly supposed that self-referential paradox arises when one considers whether Epimenides spoke the truth.
Euler Maclaurin formula: In mathematics, the Euler-Maclaurin formula provides a powerful connection between integrals and sums. It can be used to approximate integrals by finite sums, or conversely to evaluate finite sums and infinite series using integrals and the machinery of calculus. For example, many asymptotic expansions are derived from the formula, and Faulhaber's formula for the sum of powers is an immediate consequence.
Economic and monetary union: An economic and monetary union is a type of trade bloc which is composed of a single market with a common currency. It is to be distinguished from a mere currency union (e.g. the Latin Monetary Union in the 1800s), which does not involve a single market. This is the fifth stage of economic integration. EMU is established through a currency-related trade pact.
Engine: An engine is a machine designed to convert energy into useful mechanical motion. In common usage, an engine burns or otherwise consumes fuel, and is differentiated from an electric machine that derives power without changing the composition of matter. An engine may also serve as a "prime mover", a component that transforms the flow or changes in pressure of a fluid into mechanical energy.
European Environment Agency: European Environment Agency (EEA), agency of the European Union devoted to establishing a monitoring network for the monitoring of the European environment. It is governed by a Management Board composed of representatives of the governments of its 32 member states, a European Commission representative and two scientists appointed by the European Parliament, assisted by a committee of scientists.
Euphoria programming language: Euphoria is an interpreted programming language created by Robert Craig of Rapid Deployment Software.
Erlang programming language: Erlang is a general-purpose concurrent programming language and runtime system. The sequential subset of Erlang is a functional language, with strict evaluation, single assignment, and dynamic typing. For concurrency it follows the Actor model. It was designed by Ericsson to support distributed, fault-tolerant, soft-real-time, non-stop applications. The first version was developed by Joe Armstrong in 1986. It supports hot swapping thus code can be changed without stopping a system.
EV: eV may mean: Electronvolt, a unit of energy e. V.
Electric light: Most of the industrialized world is lit by electric lights, which are used both at night and to provide additional light during the daytime. These lights are normally powered by the electric grid, but some run on local generators, and emergency generators serve as backups in hospitals and other locations where a loss of power could be catastrophic. Battery-powered lights, usually called "flashlights" or "torches", are used for portability and as backups when the main lights fail.
Edgar Rice Burroughs: Edgar Rice Burroughs (September 1, 1875 - March 19, 1950) was an American author, best known for his creation of the jungle hero Tarzan and the heroic Mars adventurer John Carter, although he produced works in many genres.
Expected value: In probability theory and statistics, the expected value (or expectation value, or mathematical expectation, or mean, or first moment) of a random variable is the integral of the random variable with respect to its probability measure. For discrete random variables this is equivalent to the probability-weighted sum of the possible values. For continuous random variables with a density function it is the probability density-weighted integral of the possible values.
Energy: In physics, energy (from the Greek - energeia, "activity, operation", from - energos, "active, working") is a scalar physical quantity that describes the amount of work that can be performed by a force, an attribute of objects and systems that is subject to a conservation law. Different forms of energy include kinetic, potential, thermal, gravitational, sound, elastic, light, and electromagnetic energy. The forms of energy are often named after a related force.
Euler's sum of powers conjecture: Euler's conjecture is a disproved conjecture in mathematics related to Fermat's last theorem which was proposed by Leonhard Euler in 1769. It states that for all integers n and k greater than 1, if the sum of n kth powers of positive integers is itself a kth power, then n is not smaller than k. In symbols, if \\sum (i=1)^(n) a i^k = b^k where and are positive integers, then .
Endocarditis: Endocarditis is an inflammation of the inner layer of the heart, the endocardium. It usually involves the heart valves (native or prosthetic valves). Other structures which may be involved include the interventricular septum, the chordae tendineae, the mural endocardium, or even on intracardiac devices. Endocarditis is characterized by a prototypic lesion, the vegetation, which is a mass of platelets, fibrin, microcolonies of microorganisms, and scant inammatory cells.
Eug ne Viollet-le-Duc: Euge Emmanuel Viollet-le-Duc (January 27, 1814 - September 17, 1879) was a French architect and theorist, famous for his "restorations" of medieval buildings. Born in Paris, he was as central a figure in the Gothic Revival in France as he was in the public discourse on "honesty" in architecture, which eventually transcended all revival styles, to inform the emerging spirit of Modernism.
Electronics: Electronics is that branch of science and technology which makes use of the controlled motion of electrons through different media and vacuum. The ability to control electron flow is usually applied to information handling or device control. Electronics is distinct from electrical science and technology, which deals with the generation, distribution, control and application of electrical power.
Book of Exodus: Exodus or Shemot is the second book of the Hebrew Bible, and the second of five books of the Torah/Pentateuch. Moses leads the Hebrews out of Egypt and through the wilderness to the Mountain of God: Mount Sinai. There Yahweh, through Moses, gives the Hebrews their laws and enters into a covenant with them, by which he will give them the land of Canaan in return for their faithfulness. The book ends with the construction of the Tabernacle.
Erewhon: Erewhon: or, Over the Range is a novel by Samuel Butler, published anonymously in 1872. The title is also the name of a country, supposedly discovered by the protagonist. In the novel, it is not revealed in which part of the world Erewhon is, but it is clear that it is a fictional country. Butler meant the title to be read as the word Nowhere backwards, even though the letters "h" and "w" are transposed.
Ectopia: In medicine an ectopia is a displacement or malposition of an organ of the body. Most ectopias are congenital but some may happen later in life.
Entorhinal cortex: The entorhinal cortex (EC) is an important memory center in the brain. The EC forms the main input to the hippocampus and is responsible for the pre-processing (familiarity) of the input signals. In the reflex nictitating membrane response of classical trace conditioning, the association of impulses from the eye and the ear occurs in the entorhinal cortex. The EC-hippocampus system plays an important role in memory consolidation and memory optimization in sleep.
Evolutionism: Evolutionism refers to a theory of evolution, specifically to a widely held 19th century belief that organisms are intrinsically bound to improve themselves, and that changes are progressive and arise through inheritance of acquired characters, as in Lamarckism. The belief was extended to include cultural evolution and social evolution.
Einhard: Einhard (also Eginhard or Einhart) (c. 775 - March 14, 840 in Seligenstadt, Germany) was a Frankish courtier, a dedicated servant of Charlemagne, of whom he wrote his famous biography, Vita Karoli Magni, and Louis the Pious.
Ester: Esters are chemical compounds derived by reacting an oxoacid (one containing an oxo group, X=O) with a hydroxyl compound such as an alcohol or phenol. Esters are usually derived from an inorganic acid or organic acid in which at least one -OH (hydroxyl) group is replaced by an -O-alkyl group, and most commonly from carboxylic acids and alcohols. Esters are ubiquitous. Many naturally occurring fats and oils are the fatty acid esters of glycerol.
Entscheidungsproblem: In mathematics, the Entscheidungsproblem is a challenge posed by David Hilbert in 1928. The Entscheidungsproblem asks for an algorithm that will take as input a description of a formal language and a mathematical statement in the language and produce as output either "True" or "False" according to whether the statement is true or false. The algorithm need not justify its answer, nor provide a proof, so long as it is always correct.
Ernst Haeckel: Ernst Heinrich Philipp August Haeckel (February 16, 1834 - August 9, 1919), also written von Haeckel, was an eminent German biologist, naturalist, philosopher, physician, professor and artist who discovered, described and named thousands of new species, mapped a genealogical tree relating all life forms, and coined many terms in biology, including phylum, phylogeny, ecology and the kingdom Protista.
Endosymbiont: An endosymbiont is any organism that lives within the body or cells of another organism, i.e. forming an endosymbiosis . Examples are nitrogen-fixing bacteria which live in root nodules on legume roots, single-celled algae inside reef-building corals, and bacterial endosymbionts that provide essential nutrients to about 10%-15% of insects.
Emanuel Leutze: Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze (May 24, 1816 - July 18, 1868) was a German American history painter best-known for his painting Washington Crossing the Delaware.
Exponential function: In mathematics, the exponential function is the function e, where e is the number (approximately 2.718281828) such that the function e equals its own derivative. The exponential function is used to model phenomena when a constant change in the independent variable gives the same proportional change (increase or decrease) in the dependent variable. The exponential function is often written as exp(x), especially when the input is an expression too complex to be written as an exponent.
Prince Eugene of Savoy: Franis-Euge, Prince of Savoy-Carignan (18 October 1663 - 21 April 1736), was one of the most prominent and successful military commanders in modern European history. Born in Paris to aristocratic Savoyard parents, Eugene grew up around the French court of King Louis XIV. He was initially prepared for a career in the church, but by the age of 19 he had determined on a military career.
Erasmus Alberus: Erasmus Alberus (c. 1500 - 1553), German humanist, reformer, and poet, was born in the village of Bruchenbrcken, a suburb of Friedberg, Hesse near Frankfurt am Main about the year 1500. Although his father was a schoolmaster, his early education was neglected. Ultimately in 1518 he found his way to the University of Wittenberg, where he studied theology.
Earley parser: The Earley parser is a type of chart parser mainly used for parsing in computational linguistics, named after its inventor, Jay Earley. The algorithm uses dynamic programming. Earley parsers are appealing because they can parse all context-free languages. The Earley parser executes in cubic time (O, where n is the length of the parsed string) in the general case, quadratic time for unambiguous grammars, and linear time for almost all LR(k) grammars.
Epistle of James: The Epistle of James, usually referred to simply as James, is a book in the New Testament. The author identifies himself as "James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ".
Ethiopian cuisine: Ethiopian cuisine characteristically consists of spicy vegetable and meat dishes, usually in the form of wat (or wot), a thick stew, served atop injera, a large sourdough flatbread, which is about 50 centimeters (20 inches) in diameter and made out of fermented teff flour. Ethiopians eat with their right hands, using pieces of injera to pick up bites of entrs and side dishes. No utensils are used.
Epistle of Jude: The Epistle of Jude, usually referred to simply as Jude, is the penultimate book of the New Testament and is attributed to Jude, the brother of James the Just (who was called "the brother of Jesus").
Eusebius Amort: Eusebius Amort (November 15, 1692 - February 5, 1775) was a German Roman Catholic theologian.
Episcopi vagantes: Episcopi vagantes are persons who have been consecrated as Christian bishops outside the structures and canon law of the established churches and are in communion with no generally recognized diocese. Also included are those who have in communion with them a group so small that it appears to exist solely for the bishop's sake. The term is Latin and means "wandering bishops" (or "stray bishops"). Those to whom it is applied see it as pejorative.
Elizabeth Garrett Anderson: Dr Elizabeth Garrett Anderson, LSA, MD (9 June 1836 - 17 December 1917), was an English physician and feminist, the first woman to gain a medical qualification in Britain and the first female mayor in England.
Erosion: Erosion is a gravity driven process that moves solids in the natural environment or their source and deposits them elsewhere. It usually occurs due to transport by wind, water, or ice; by down-slope creep of soil and other material under the force of gravity; or by living organisms, such as burrowing animals, in the case of bioerosion. Erosion is a natural process, but it has been increased dramatically by human land use, especially industrial agriculture, deforestation, and urban sprawl.
Edwin Austin Abbey: Edwin Austin Abbey (April 1, 1852 - August 1, 1911) was an American artist, illustrator, and painter. He flourished at the beginning of what is now referred to as the "golden age" of illustration, and is best known for his drawings and paintings of Shakespearean and Victorian subjects, as well as for his painting of Edward VII's coronation.". His most famous work, The Quest of the Holy Grail, resides in the Boston Public Library.
Euclidean space: In mathematics, Euclidean space is the Euclidean plane and three-dimensional space of Euclidean geometry, as well as the generalizations of these notions to higher dimensions. The term Euclidean is used to distinguish these spaces from the curved spaces of non-Euclidean geometry and Einstein's general theory of relativity.
Evolutionary psychology: Evolutionary psychology (EP) attempts to explain psychological traitssuch as memory, perception, or languageas adaptations, that is, as the functional products of natural selection or sexual selection. Adaptationist thinking about physiological mechanisms, such as the heart, lungs, and immune system, is common in evolutionary biology. Evolutionary psychology applies the same thinking to psychology.
Exeter: Exeter is an historic city in Devon, England. It is the county town of Devon and as such is home to Devon County Council. Its current formal status is as a non-metropolitan district, and it is therefore under the jurisdiction of the County Council as well as lying within the ceremonial county of Devon. It is located on the River Exe and is approximately 37 miles (60 km) northeast of Plymouth, and 70 miles (110 km) southwest of Bristol. The city had a population of 111,076 in the 2001 Census.
Languages of Europe: Most languages of Europe belong to the Indo-European language family. Another major family is the Finno-Ugric. The Turkic family also has several European members. The North and South Caucasian families are important in the southeastern extremity of geographical Europe. Basque is a language isolate directly related to ancient Aquitanian, while Maltese is the only national language in Europe, but not the only language in Europe, that is Semitic.
Eindhoven University of Technology: The Eindhoven University of Technology is a university of technology located in Eindhoven, Netherlands. The motto of the university is: Mens agitat molem (Mind over matter).
European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages: The European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages (ECRML) is a European treaty (CETS 148) adopted in 1992 under the auspices of the Council of Europe to protect and promote historical regional and minority languages in Europe.
Electronegativity: Electronegativity, symbol (the Greek letter chi), is a chemical property that describes the ability of an atom (or, more rarely, a functional group) to attract electrons (or electron density) towards itself. An atom's electronegativity is affected by both its atomic weight and the distance that its valence electrons reside from the charged nucleus. The higher the associated electronegativity number, the more an element or compound attracts electrons towards it.
Ernest Thayer: Ernest Lawrence Thayer (August 14, 1863 - August 21, 1940) was an American writer and poet who wrote "Casey at the Bat".
English Civil War: The English Civil War (1641-1651) was a series of armed conflicts and political machinations between Parliamentarians and Royalists. The first (1642-46) and second (1648-49) civil wars pitted the supporters of King Charles I against the supporters of the Long Parliament, while the third war (1649-51) saw fighting between supporters of King Charles II and supporters of the Rump Parliament. The Civil War ended with the Parliamentary victory at the Battle of Worcester on 3 September 1651.
Elementary algebra: Elementary algebra is a fundamental and relatively basic form of algebra taught to students who are presumed to have little or no formal knowledge of mathematics beyond arithmetic. While in arithmetic only numbers and their arithmetical operations (such as +, , , ) occur, in algebra one also uses symbols (such as x and y, or a and b) to denote numbers. Elementary Algebra should be distinguished from abstract algebra, a more advanced field of study.
Echidna disambiguation: Echidna is the spiny anteater, an Australian monotreme. Echidna may also refer to: Echidna (mythology), monster in Greek mythology and namesake of the mammal Echidna (genus), a genus of moray eels Echnida, junior synonym for Bitis, a genus of African vipers (42355) Typhon I Echidna, the natural satellite of the asteroid 42355 Typhon ECHIDNA, high-resolution neutron powder diffractometer at Australia's research reactor OPAL Echidna, character in the video game The Bouncer
List of English language poets: This is a list of English language poets. People on this list should have articles of their own, and should meet the for their poetry. Please place names on the list only if there is a real and existing article on the poet. Dead links in RED will be removed.
Excalibur: Excalibur is the legendary sword of King Arthur, sometimes attributed with magical powers or associated with the rightful sovereignty of Great Britain. Sometimes Excalibur and the Sword in the Stone (the proof of Arthur's lineage) are said to be the same weapon, but in most versions they are considered separate. The sword was associated with the Arthurian legend very early. In Welsh, the sword is called Caledfwlch.
Edward Waring: Edward Waring (circa 1736 - 15 August 1798) was an English mathematician who was born in Old Heath, Shropshire, England and died in Pontesbury, Shropshire, England. He entered Magdalene College, Cambridge as a sizar and became Senior wrangler in 1757. He was elected a Fellow of Magdalene and in 1760 Lucasian Professor of Mathematics, holding the chair until his death. He made the assertion known as Waring's Problem without proof in his writings Meditationes Algebraicae.
Ecuador United States relations: The United States and Ecuador have maintained close ties based on mutual interests in maintaining democratic institutions; combating marijuana and cocaine; building trade, investment, and financial ties; cooperating in fostering Ecuador's economic development; and participating in inter-American organizations. Ties are further strengthened by the presence of an estimated 150,000-200,000 Ecuadorians living in the United States and by 24,000 U.S.
Eight-ball: Eight-ball, sometimes called stripes and solids and, more rarely, bigs and littles or highs and lows, is a pool game popular in much of the world, and the subject of international amateur and professional competition. Played on a pool table with six pockets, the game is so universally known in some countries that beginners are often unaware of other pool games and believe the word "pool" itself refers to eight-ball.
Earned value management: Earned value management (EVM) is a project management technique for measuring project progress in an objective manner. EVM has the ability to combine measurements of scope, schedule, and cost in a single integrated system. When properly applied, EVM provides an early warning of performance problems. Additionally, EVM promises to improve the definition of project scope, prevent scope creep, communicate objective progress to stakeholders, and keep the project team focused on achieving progress.
Eight bar blues: An eight bar blues is a typical blues chord progression, taking eight 4/4 bars to the verse. "Heartbreak Hotel", "How Long Blues", "Trouble in Mind", "Ain't Nobody's Business" and "Cherry Red" are all eight-bar blues standards. One variant using this progression is to couple one eight-bar blues melody with a different eight-bar blues bridge to create a blues variant of the standard 32-bar song. "Walking By Myself", "I Want a Little Girl" and "(Romancing) In The Dark" are examples of this form.
Eden Phillpotts: Eden Phillpotts (4 November 1862 - 29 December 1960) was an English author, poet and dramatist. He was born in India, educated in Plymouth, Devon, and worked as an insurance officer for 10 years before studying for the stage and eventually becoming a writer. He was the author of many novels, plays and poems about Dartmoor. His Dartmoor cycle of 18 novels and two volumes of short stories still have many avid readers despite the fact that many titles are out of print.
Electron microscope: An electron microscope is a type of microscope that produces an electronically-magnified image of a specimen for detailed observation. The electron microscope (EM) uses a particle beam of electrons to illuminate the specimen and create a magnified image of it.
Eli Whitney Jr.: Eli Whitney (December 8, 1765 - January 8, 1825) was an American inventor best known for inventing the cotton gin. This was one of the key inventions of the Industrial Revolution and shaped the economy of the antebellum South. Whitney's invention made short staple cotton into a profitable crop, which strengthened the economic foundation of slavery.
The American Prisoner: The American Prisoner is a novel written by Eden Phillpotts, published in America in 1904 and adapted into a film in 1929. The story concerns an English woman who lives at Fox Tor farm, and an American captured during the American Revolutionary War and held at the prison at Princetown on Dartmoor. The heroine's father, Maurice Malherb, is based on Thomas Windeatt. In the novel Malherb is a miscreant who destroys Childe's tomb and beats his servant.
Electromagnetic field: The electromagnetic field is a physical field produced by electrically charged objects. It affects the behavior of charged objects in the vicinity of the field. The electromagnetic field extends indefinitely throughout space and describes the electromagnetic interaction. It is one of the four fundamental forces of nature. The field can be viewed as the combination of an electric field and a magnetic field.
List of extinct birds: Since 1500, over 190 species of birds have become extinct, and this rate of extinction seems to be increasing. The situation is exemplified by Hawaii, where 30% of all known recently extinct bird taxa originally lived. Other areas, such as Guam, have also been hit hard; Guam has lost over 60% of its native bird taxa in the last 30 years, many of them due to the introduced Brown Tree Snake.
Empire State Building: The Empire State Building is a 102-story landmark Art Deco skyscraper in New York City at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and West 34th Street. Its name is derived from the nickname for the state of New York, The Empire State. It stood as the world's tallest building for more than forty years, from its completion in 1931 until construction of the World Trade Center's North Tower was completed in 1972.
Eugenics: Eugenics is the study and practice of selective breeding applied to humans, with the aim of improving the species. In a historical and broader sense, eugenics can also be a study of "improving human genetic qualities. " Advocates of eugenics sought to counter what they regarded as dysgenic dynamics within the human gene pool, specifically in regard to congenital disorders and factors relating to the heritability of IQ.
E-mail: Electronic mail, most commonly abbreviated email and e-mail, is a method of exchanging digital messages. E-mail systems are based on a store-and-forward model in which e-mail server computer systems accept, forward, deliver and store messages on behalf of users, who only need to connect to the e-mail infrastructure, typically an e-mail server, with a network-enabled device for the duration of message submission or retrieval.
Emoticon: An emoticon is a textual expression representing the face of a writer's mood or facial expression. Emoticons are often used to alert a responder to the tenor or temper of a statement, and can change and improve interpretation of plain text. The word is a portmanteau of the English words emotion (or emote) and icon. In web forums, instant messengers and online games, text emoticons are often automatically replaced with small corresponding images, which came to be called emoticons as well.
School voucher: A school voucher, also called an education voucher, is a certificate issued by the government which parents can apply toward tuition at a private school, rather than at the public school to which their child is assigned. Under non-voucher education systems citizens who currently pay for private schooling are still taxed for public schools. Vouchers are intended to allow citizens to offset this extra cost, without a direct tax credit or deduction.
Epoch: An epoch, Epoch or EPOCH may refer to:
Erd s number: The Erds number describes the "collaborative distance" between a person and mathematician Paul Erds, as measured by authorship of mathematical papers. It was created by friends as a humorous tribute to the enormous output of Erds, one of the most prolific modern writers of mathematical papers, and has become well-known in scientific circles as a tongue-in-cheek measurement of mathematical prominence.
E. B. White: Elwyn Brooks "E. B. " White (July 11, 1899 - October 1, 1985) was an American writer. A long-time contributor to "The New Yorker" magazine, he also wrote many famous books for both adults and children, such as the popular Charlotte's Web and Stuart Little.
Evangelist Latter Day Saints: In the Latter Day Saint movement, an evangelist is an ordained office of the ministry. In some denominations of the movement, an evangelist is referred to as a patriarch. However, the latter term was deprecated by the Community of Christ after the church began ordaining women to the priesthood. Other denominations, such as The Church of Jesus Christ (Bickertonite), have an evangelist position independent of the original patriarch office instituted by the movement's founder Joseph Smith, Jr.
Exabyte: An exabyte is a unit of information or computer storage equal to one quintillion bytes . It is commonly abbreviated EB. When used with byte multiples, the unit indicates a power of 1000: 1 EB = 1,000,000,000,000,000,000 B = 10 bytes or 1 billion gigabytes The term exbibyte, using a binary prefix, is used for powers of 1024 bytes. In principle, the 64-bit microprocessors found in many computers can address 16 exbibytes, or just over 18 exabytes, of memory.
Elegiac couplet: Elegiac couplets are a poetic form used by Greek lyric poets for a variety of themes usually of smaller scale than those of epic poetry. The ancient Romans frequently used elegiac couplets in love poetry, as in Ovid's Amores. As with heroic couplets, the couplets are usually self-contained and express a complete idea.
Era: An era is a commonly used word for long period of time. When used in science, for example geology, eras denote clearly defined periods of time of arbitrary but well defined length, such as for example the Mesozoic era from 252 Ma-66 Ma, delimited by a start event and an end event. When used in social history, eras may for example denote a period of some monarch's reign.
Eschatology: Eschatology (lit. 'study of the last') is a part of theology and philosophy concerned with what are believed to be the final events in history, or the ultimate destiny of humanity, commonly referred to as the end of the world. The OED defines it as "concerned with the four last things: death, judgement, heaven, and hell".
Ecumenical council: An ecumenical council (or oecumenical council; also general council) is a conference of the bishops of the whole Christian Church convened to discuss and settle matters of Church doctrine and practice. The word derives from the Greek language "", which literally means "the inhabited world", which first referred to the Roman Empire and later was extended to apply to the world in general.
Extrasolar planet: An extrasolar planet, or exoplanet, is a planet outside the Solar System. There are billions of stars in our galaxy and a significant percentage of these stars are likely to have planets orbiting them. There are also planets orbiting brown dwarfs and free floating planets orbiting the galaxy directly. As of March 2010,431 extrasolar planets have been confirmed. The vast majority have been detected through radial velocity observations and other indirect methods rather than actual imaging.
Eridanus: The name Eridanus can refer to:
Equuleus: Equuleus is a constellation. Its name is Latin for 'little horse', i.e. a foal. It was one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and remains one of the 88 modern constellations. It is the second smallest of the modern constellations, spanning only 72 square degrees. It is also very faint, having no stars brighter than the fourth magnitude.
Emma Goldman: Emma Goldman (June 27, 1869 - May 14, 1940) was an anarchist known for her political activism, writing and speeches. She played a pivotal role in the development of anarchist political philosophy in North America and Europe in the first half of the twentieth century. Born in Kovno in the Russian Empire, Goldman emigrated to the US in 1885 and lived in New York City, where she joined the burgeoning anarchist movement.
Eucharist: The Eucharist, also called Holy Communion, Sacrament of the Table, the Blessed Sacrament, or The Lord's Supper, and other names, is a Christian sacrament or ordinance, generally considered to be a commemoration of the Last Supper, the final meal that Jesus Christ shared with his disciples before his arrest and eventual crucifixion.
Eclipse: An eclipse is an astronomical event that occurs when one celestial object moves into the shadow of another. When an eclipse occurs within a stellar system, such as the Solar System, it forms a type of syzygy- the alignment of three or more celestial bodies in the same gravitational system along a straight line.
Ed text editor: ed is a line editor for the Unix operating system. It was one of the first end-user programs hosted on the system and has been standard in Unix-based systems ever since. ed was originally written by Ken Thompson and contains one of the first implementations of regular expressions. Prior to that implementation, the concept of regular expressions was only formalized in a mathematical paper, which Ken Thompson had read.
Edlin: Edlin is a line editor included with MS-DOS and later Microsoft operating systems. It provides rudimentary capabilities for editing plain text files through a command-driven interface. Line numbers are specified using numerals, and operations are specified using single-character alphabetic commands (e.g. "5d" instructs the program to delete the 5th line of the file).
Endoplasmic reticulum: The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an eukaryotic organelle that forms an interconnected network of tubules, vesicles, and cisternae within cells. The lacey membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen by Keith R. Porter, Albert Claude, and Ernest F. Fullam in 1945.
Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code: Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code (EBCDIC) is an 8-bit character encoding used on IBM mainframe operating systems such as z/OS, OS/390, VM and VSE, as well as IBM midrange computer operating systems such as OS/400 and i5/OS. It is also employed on various non-IBM platforms such as Fujitsu-Siemens' BS2000/OSD, HP MPE/iX, and Unisys MCP.
Executive Order 9066: United States Executive Order 9066 was a United States presidential executive order signed and issued during World War II by U.S. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt on February 19, 1942 ordering Japanese Americans to internment camps.
Edvard Munch: Edvard Munch (12 December 1863 - 23 January 1944) was a Norwegian Symbolist painter, printmaker and an important forerunner of expressionistic art. His best-known composition, The Scream, is part of a series The Frieze of Life, in which Munch explored the themes of life, love, fear, death, and melancholia.
Extended Industry Standard Architecture: The Extended Industry Standard Architecture (in practice almost always shortened to EISA and frequently pronounced "eee-suh") is a bus standard for IBM compatible computers. It was announced in late 1988 by PC clone vendors as a counter to IBM's use of its proprietary MicroChannel Architecture (MCA) in its PS/2 series.
Electromagnetic spectroscopy: Electromagnetic spectroscopy is the spectroscopy of electromagnetic spectra which arise out of atoms absorbing and emitting quanta of electromagnetic radiation. It is done with the aid of a spectrometer.
Earthdawn: Earthdawn is a fantasy role-playing game, originally produced by FASA in 1993. In 1999 it was licensed to Living Room Games, which produced the Second Edition. It is currently licensed to RedBrick Limited, who have just released the game's third edition through Mongoose Publishing's Flaming Cobra imprint. The game is similar to fantasy games like Dungeons & Dragons, but draws more inspiration from games like RuneQuest.
Electronic Data Interchange: Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) refers to the structured transmission of data between organizations by electronic means. It is used to transfer electronic documents from one computer system to another, i.e. from one trading partner to another trading partner. It is more than mere E-mail; for instance, organizations might replace bills of lading and even Cheques with appropriate EDI messages. It also refers specifically to a family of standards, including the X12 series.
Extra-vehicular activity: Extra-vehicular activity (EVA) is work done by an astronaut away from the Earth, and outside of a spacecraft. The term most commonly applies to an EVA made outside a craft orbiting Earth (a spacewalk), but also applies to an EVA made on the surface of the Moon (a moonwalk). In the later lunar landing missions the command module pilot (CMP) did an EVA to retrieve film canisters on the return trip; he was assisted by the lunar module pilot (LMP) who remained at the open CM hatch.
Erin Brockovich: Erin Brockovich-Ellis (born June 22, 1960) is an American legal clerk and environmental activist who, despite the lack of a formal law school education, was instrumental in constructing a case against the Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) of California in 1993. Since the release of the film that shares her story and name, she has hosted Challenge America with Erin Brockovich on ABC and Final Justice on Lifetime.
Electric charge: Electric charge is a fundamental conserved property of some subatomic particles, which determines their electromagnetic interaction. Electrically charged matter is influenced by, and produces, electromagnetic fields. The interaction between a moving charge and an electromagnetic field is the source of the electromagnetic force, which is one of the four fundamental forces. The electric charge on a body may be positive or negative.
Ellis Island: Ellis Island, at the mouth of the Hudson River in New York Harbor, is the location of what was from January 1, 1892, until November 12, 1954 the facility that replaced the state-run Castle Garden Immigration Depot (1855-1890) in Manhattan. It is owned by the Federal government and is now part of the Statue of Liberty National Monument, under the jurisdiction of the US National Park Service. Ellis Island was also the subject of a border dispute between the states of New York and New Jersey.
Euripides: Euripides (ca. 480 BCE - 406 BCE) was the last of the three great tragedians of classical Athens. Ancient scholars thought that Euripides had written ninety-five plays, although four of those were probably written by Critias. Eighteen or nineteen of Euripides' plays have survived complete. There has been debate about his authorship of Rhesus, largely on stylistic grounds and ignoring classical evidence that the play was his. Fragments, some substantial, of most of the other plays also survive.
Emily Bront: Emily Jane Bront (30 July 1818 - 19 December 1848) was an English novelist and poet, now best remembered for her novel Wuthering Heights, a classic of English literature. Emily was the second eldest of the three surviving Bront sisters, between Charlotte and Anne. She published under the androgynous pen name Ellis Bell.
E. E. Smith: E. E. Smith, also Edward Elmer Smith, Ph.D. , E. E. "Doc" Smith, Doc Smith, "Skylark" Smith, and (to family) Ted (May 2, 1890 - August 31, 1965) was a food engineer and early science fiction author who wrote the Lensman series and the Skylark series, among others. He is sometimes referred to as the father of Space Opera.
Extinction event: An extinction event is a sharp decrease in the diversity and abundance of macroscopic life. They occur when the rate of extinction increases with respect to the rate of speciation. Because the majority of diversity and biomass on earth is microbial, and thus difficult to measure, mass extinctions have little effect on the total diversity and abundance of life, but rather affect the easily observed component of the biosphere.
Ennius: Quintus Ennius was a writer during the period of the Roman Republic, and is often considered the father of Roman poetry. He was of Calabrian descent. Although only fragments of his works survive, his influence in Latin literature was significant.
 variste Galois: ariste Galois (October 25, 1811 - May 31, 1832) was a French mathematician born in Bourg-la-Reine. While still in his teens, he was able to determine a necessary and sufficient condition for a polynomial to be solvable by radicals, thereby solving a long-standing problem. His work laid the foundations for Galois theory, a major branch of abstract algebra, and the subfield of Galois connections.
Eris mythology: Eris is the Greek goddess of strife, her name being translated into Latin as Discordia. Her Greek opposite is Harmonia, whose Latin counterpart is Concordia. Homer equated her with the war-goddess Enyo, whose Roman counterpart is Bellona. Eris, the solar system's largest known dwarf planet, is named after the goddess.
Edna St. Vincent Millay: Edna St. Vincent Millay (February 22, 1892 - October 19, 1950) was an American lyrical poet and playwright and the first woman to receive the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. She was also known for her unconventional, bohemian lifestyle and her many love affairs. She used the pseudonym Nancy Boyd for her prose work.
Enlightenment: Enlightenment may refer to:
Ethnocentrism: Ethnocentrism is the tendency to believe that one's ethnic or cultural group is centrally important, and that all other groups are measured in relation to one's own. The ethnocentric individual will judge other groups relative to their own particular ethnic group or culture, especially with concern to language, behavior, customs, and religion. These ethnic distinctions and sub-divisions serve to define each ethnicity's unique cultural identity. The term ethnocentrism was coined by William G.
Execution unit: In computer engineering, an execution unit (also called a functional unit) is a part of a CPU that performs the operations and calculations called for by the computer program. It may have its own internal control sequence unit (not to be confused with the CPUs main control unit), some registers, and other internal units such as a sub-ALU or FPU, or some smaller, more specific components.
Eskilstuna Municipality: Eskilstuna Municipality (Eskilstuna kommun) is a municipality in Sermanland County in southeast Sweden, between the lakes Maren and Hjmaren. Its seat is located in the city of Eskilstuna. The present municipality was formed in 1971 when the City of Eskilstuna, the City of Torshla and five rural municipalities were amalgamated.
European Convention on Human Rights: The European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) (formally the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms) is an international treaty to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe. Drafted in 1950 by the then newly formed Council of Europe, the convention entered into force on 3 September 1953. All Council of Europe member states are party to the Convention and new members are expected to ratify the convention at the earliest opportunity.
Ecclesia: Ecclesia or ekklesia (in Greek) may refer to: the Christian Church See Church militant and church triumphant for ecclesia militans, ecclesia penitens, ecclesia triumphans Ecclesia (ancient Athens), the principal assembly of ancient Athens during its Golden Age The Qahal, an organisational structure mentioned in the masoretic text of the Bible, which the Septuagint refers to as the Ekklesia.
Ethylene: Ethylene is the organic compound with the formula C2H4. It is the simplest alkene . Because it contains a carbon-carbon double bond, ethylene is classified as an unsaturated hydrocarbon. Ethylene is widely used in industry and also has a role in biology as a hormone. Ethylene is the most produced organic compound in the world; global production of ethylene exceeded 107 million metric tonnes in 2005.
Escape from New York: Escape from New York is a 1981 science fiction/action film directed and scored by John Carpenter. He also co-wrote the screenplay with Nick Castle. The film is set in the near future in a crime-ridden United States that has converted Manhattan Island in New York City into a maximum security prison. Ex-soldier and legendary fugitive "Snake" Plissken is given 24 hours to find the President of the United States, who has been captured by inmates after Air Force One crashed on the island.
Eiffel programming language: Eiffel is an ISO-standardized, object-oriented programming language designed to enable programmers to develop extensible, reusable, reliable software efficiently. Eiffel is used in academia as a language for teaching computer-programming principles. Eiffel is used in the finance, aerospace, health-care, video-gaming, and other industries as a development platform. Since 1985, many suppliers have developed Eiffel programming environments.
Expressive aphasia: Expressive aphasia, known as Broca's aphasia in clinical neuropsychology and agrammatic aphasia in cognitive neuropsychology, is caused by damage to or developmental issues in anterior regions of the brain, including (but not limited to) the left posterior inferior frontal gyrus known as Broca's area. Expressive aphasia is one subset of a larger family of disorders known collectively as aphasia. It is characterized by the loss of the ability to produce language (spoken or written).
Ezra: Ezra was a Jewish priestly scribe who led about 5,000 Israelite exiles living in Babylon to their home city of Jerusalem in 459 BCE. Ezra reconstituted the dispersed Jewish community on the basis of the Torah and with an emphasis on the law. According to the Hebrew Bible, Ezra resolved the identity threat which arose by the intermarriage between Jews and foreigners and provided a definite reading of the Torah. Ezra is highly respected in the Jewish tradition.
Elijah: Elijah or Elias, whose name means "Yahweh is God," was a prophet in Israel in the 9th century BC. He appears in the Hebrew Bible, Talmud, Mishnah, New Testament, and the Qur'an. According to the Books of Kings, Elijah raised the dead, brought fire down from the sky, and ascended into heaven in a whirlwind (accompanied by chariots, not in one).
JavaScript: JavaScript is an object-oriented scripting language used to enable programmatic access to objects within both the client application and other applications. It is primarily used in the form of client-side JavaScript, implemented as an integrated component of the web browser, allowing the development of enhanced user interfaces and dynamic websites.
Ephesus: Ephesus was an ancient Greek city on the west coast of Anatolia, near present-day Selk, Izmir Province, Turkey. It was one of the twelve cities of the Ionian League during the Classical Greek era. In the Roman period, it was for many years the second largest city of the Roman Empire; ranking behind Rome, the empire's capital. Ephesus had a population of more than 250,000 in the 1st century BC, which also made it the second largest city in the world.
Elbing: Elbing may refer to: German name of Elblg, a city in northern Poland which until 1945 was a German city in the province of East Prussia objects named after that city: SMS Elbing, light cruiser of the Imperial Germany Navy Elbing class torpedo boat Elbing, Kansas, city in the United States German name of the Elblg (river), on which the above city is located
Estonian: Estonian may refer to: Something of, from, or related to Estonia, a country in the Baltic region in northern Europe Estonians - people from Estonia, or of Estonian descent For more information about the Estonian people, see Demographics of Estonia and Culture of Estonia. For specific persons, see List of Estonians The Estonian language See also Languages of Estonia Estonian cuisine
Eureka Stockade: The rebellion by gold prospectors at the Eureka Stockade in Ballarat, Victoria, Australia on 3 December 1854 was prompted by grievances over heavily priced mining items, the expense of a Miner's Licence, taxation (via the licence) without representation and the actions of the government and its agents (the police and military).
Exile: Exile means to be away from one's home (i.e. city, state or country), while either being explicitly refused permission to return and/or being threatened by prison or death upon return. It can be a form of punishment. It is common to distinguish between internal exile, i.e. , forced resettlement within the country of residence, and external exile, deportation outside the country of residence. Exile can also be a self-imposed departure from one's homeland.
Europe of Democracies and Diversities: Europe of Democracies and Diversities was a euro-sceptic political group with seats in the European Parliament between 1999 and 2004. Following the elections in 2004, the former MEPs of the group took MEPs from the new member countries on board and together, they registered the new group Independence and Democracy (IND/DEM).
European Free Alliance: The European Free Alliance (EFA) is a European political party. It consists of various national-level political parties in Europe which advocate either full political independence, or some form of devolution or Self-governance for their country or region. The alliance has generally limited its membership to progressive parties. Therefore not all European regionalist parties are members of EFA.
European People's Party European Parliament group: The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) (EPP Group) is a centre-right political group of the European Parliament. It is made up of MEPs elected from the lists of member-parties of the European People's Party (EPP), plus a few independent MEPs. It is the only political group in the European parliament to fully represent its corresponding European political party, the EPP.
European United Left Nordic Green Left: European United Left-Nordic Green Left (EUL-NGL) is a left-wing political group with seats in the European Parliament since 1995.
European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party: The European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party is European political party, mainly active in the European Union, composed of 55 national-level liberal and liberal-democratic parties from across Europe. Having developed from a loose confederation of national political parties in the 1970s, the ELDR is now a recognised European political party incorporated as a non-profit association under Belgian law.
European Democrats: The European Democrats was a loose association of conservative political parties in Europe. It is a political group in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It was also a political group in the European Parliament, until 1992, when it became a subgroup of EPP-ED.
Epistle to the Ephesians: The Epistle of Paul to the Ephesians, usually referred to simply as Ephesians, is the tenth book of the New Testament. Its authorship has traditionally been credited to Paul, but it is now widely accepted by critical scholarship to be "deutero-Pauline," that is, written in Paul's name by a later author strongly influenced by Paul's thought. Bible scholar Raymond E. Brown asserts that about 80% of critical scholarship judges that Paul did not write Ephesians.
Electrical bus: An electrical bus (alternatively spelled "buss"), derived from busbar, is a common electrical connection between multiple electrical devices. A bus can either allow signals to be transferred between devices, the summing (mixing) of output signals from the devices or the distribution of input signals or power amongst the devices. A bus often takes the form of a wire or printed circuit conductor that terminate at multiple connectors which allows the devices to be plugged into the bus.
Exploit computer security: An exploit (from the in the French language, meaning "achievement", or "accomplishment") is a piece of software, a chunk of data, or sequence of commands that take advantage of a bug, glitch or vulnerability in order to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer software, hardware, or something electronic (usually computerised). This frequently includes such things as gaining control of a computer system or allowing privilege escalation or a denial of service attack.
Elbl g: Elblg is a city in northern Poland with 127,892 inhabitants (2006). It is the capital of Elblg County and has been assigned to the Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship since 1999. Before then it was the capital of Elblg Voivodeship (1975-1998) and a county seat in Gdask Voivodeship (1945-1975). The city is a port on the river Elblg which flows into the Vistula Lagoon about 10 km to the north, thus giving the city access to the Baltic Sea via the Russian-controlled Strait of Baltiysk.
Eurocard printed circuit board: Eurocard is a European standard format for printed circuit boards, which can be plugged together into a standardized subrack. The subrack consists of a series of slotted card guides on the top and bottom, into which the cards are slid so they stand on end, like books on a shelf. At the "back" of each card is one or more connectors, which plug into mating connectors on a backplane which closes the rear of the subrack.
Electron counting: Electron counting is a formalism used for classifying compounds and for explaining or predicting electronic structure and bonding.
Erg: An erg is the unit of energy and mechanical work in the centimetre-gram-second (CGS) system of units, symbol "erg". Its name is derived from the Greek ergon, meaning "work". An erg is the amount of work done by a force of one dyne exerted for a distance of one centimetre. In the CGS base units, it is equal to one gram centimetre-squared per second squared (gm/s). It is thus equal to 1 &times; 10 joules or 100 nanojoules (nJ) in SI units.
Everway: Everway is a fantasy role-playing game first published by Wizards of the Coast under their Alter Ego brand in the mid-1990s. Its lead designer was Jonathan Tweet. Marketed as a "Visionary Roleplaying Game", it has often characterized as an innovative piece with a limited commercial success. Wizards later abandoned the line, and Rubicon Games purchased it, and published several supplements. The line was sold again to Gaslight Press in February 2001.
Entropy: Entropy is a measure of how organized or disorganized a system is: "Gain of entropy eventually is nothing more nor less than loss of information" Entropy is an important part of the second law of thermodynamics. Thermodynamic systems consist of objects, e.g. atoms or molecules, which "carry" energy. In applied thermodynamics, as a matter of convention, entropy is measured in Joules of energy per kelvin (a unit of temperature).
Elf: An elf (plural elves) is a being of Germanic mythology. The elves were originally thought of as a race of divine or semi-divine beings endowed with magical powers, which they use both for the benefit and the injury of mankind. In pre-Christian mythology, they appear to have been divided into light elves and dark elves, difficult to delineate from the ir on one hand and the dvergar on the other.
Economy of Afghanistan: The economy of Afghanistan has improved significantly since 2002 due to the infusion of billions of US dollars in international assistance and investments, as well as remittances from expats. It is also due to dramatic improvements in agricultural production and the end of a four-year drought in most of the country. However, Afghanistan still remains one of the poorest and least developed countries in the world for now and is highly dependent on foreign aid.
Evil: Evil is defined as something that is immoral, causes pain or harm, is offensive, or threatening. In many cultures evil is a broad term used to describe what are seen as subjectively harmful deeds that are labeled as such to steer moral support. Evil is usually contrasted with good. In some religions, evil is an active force, often personified as an entity such as Satan or Angra Mainyu.
Ethnic nationalism: Ethnic nationalism is a form of nationalism wherein the "nation" is defined in terms of ethnicity. Whatever specific ethnicity is involved, ethnic nationalism always includes some element of descent from previous generations. Furthermore, the central theme of ethnic nationalists is that "... nations are defined by a shared heritage, which usually includes a common language, a common faith, and a common ethnic ancestry.
Expert: An expert is someone widely recognized as a reliable source of or skill whose faculty for judging or deciding rightly, justly, or wisely is accorded authority and status by their peers or the public in a specific well-distinguished domain. An expert, more generally, is a person with extensive knowledge or ability based on research, experience, or occupation and in a particular area of study.
Epistle to the Hebrews: The Epistle to the Hebrews is one of the books in the New Testament. Its author is anonymous.
Esther: Esther, born Hadassah, is the eponymous heroine of the Biblical Book of Esther. According to the Bible she was a Jewish queen of the Persian king Ahasuerus (traditionally identified with Xerxes I). Her story is the basis for the celebration of Purim in Jewish tradition.
Entamoeba: Entamoeba is a genus of Amoebozoa found as internal parasites or commensals of animals. In 1875, Fedor Lch described the first proven case of amoebic dysentery in St Petersburg, Russia. He referred to the amoeba he observed microscopically as 'Amoeba coli'; however it is not clear whether he was using this as a descriptive term or intended it as a formal taxonomic name.
Eureka Missouri: Eureka is a city located in St. Louis County, Missouri, United States, between St. Louis, Missouri and Pacific, Missouri along Interstate 44. As of the 2000 census, the city had a total population of 7,676. The city is two miles (3 km) west of the former site of Times Beach, the site of dioxin contamination discovered in the 1980s; the area was cleaned up and became Route 66 State Park.
England national football team: The England national football team represents England in international association football and is controlled by the Football Association, the governing body for football in England. Although most national teams worldwide represent a sovereign state, the four Home Nations which form the United Kingdom are each represented separately in international tournaments. England's home ground is Wembley Stadium in London and their head coach is Fabio Capello.
Equation of state: In physics and thermodynamics, an equation of state is a relation between state variables. More specifically, an equation of state is a thermodynamic equation describing the state of matter under a given set of physical conditions. It is a constitutive equation which provides a mathematical relationship between two or more state functions associated with the matter, such as its temperature, pressure, volume, or internal energy.
Ecclesiastes: Ecclesiastes (often abbreviated Ecc) is a book of the Hebrew Bible. The English name derives from the Greek translation of the Hebrew title. The main speaker in the book, identified by the name or title Qohelet, introduces himself as "son of David, and king in Jerusalem. " The work consists of personal or autobiographic matter, at times expressed in aphorisms and maxims illuminated in terse paragraphs with reflections on the meaning of life and the best way of life.
Ezekiel: According to religious texts, Ezekiel ("God will strengthen", was a priest in the Bible who prophesied for 22 years sometime in the 6th century BC in the form of visions while exiled in Babylon, as recorded in the Book of Ezekiel. Christianity regards Ezekiel as a prophet. Judaism considers the Book of Ezekiel a part of its canon, and regards Ezekiel as the third of the major prophets.
Explorer program: The Explorer program ia a NASA program that provides frequent flight opportunities for world-class scientific investigations from space utilizing innovative, streamlined and efficient management approaches within the heliophysics and astrophysics science areas.
Electronic oscillator: An electronic oscillator is an electronic circuit that produces a repetitive electronic signal, often a sine wave or a square wave. A low-frequency oscillator (LFO) is an electronic oscillator that generates an AC waveform at a frequency below 20 Hz. This term is typically used in the field of audio synthesizers, to distinguish it from an audio frequency oscillator. Oscillators designed to produce a high-power AC output from a DC supply are usually called inverters.
Executable and Linkable Format: In computing, the Executable and Linkable Format (ELF, formerly called Extensible Linking Format) is a common standard file format for executables, object code, shared libraries, and core dumps. First published in the System V Application Binary Interface specification, and later in the Tool Interface Standard, it was quickly accepted among different vendors of Unix systems. In 1999 it was chosen as the standard binary file format for Unix and Unix-like systems on x86 by the 86open project.
European Company Statute: The Council Regulation on the Statute for a European Company of the European Union was adopted October 8, 2001. It contains rules for European Public Companies known as a Societas Europaea (SE) (Latin for "European Company"). There is also a statute allowing European Cooperative Societies. An SE can be registered in any member state of the European Union, and the registration can be easily transferred to another member state.
Electronic mixer: An electronic mixer is a device that combines two or more electronic signals into one composite output signal. There are two basic types of mixer. Additive mixers add two signals together, and are used for such applications as audio mixing. Multiplying mixers multiply the signals together, and produce an output containing both original signals, and new signals that have the sum and difference of the frequency of the original signals.
Eubulides: Eubulides of Miletus was a philosopher of the Megarian school who lived in the 4th century BC. He was a successor of Euclid of Megara, the founder of the school. He is famous for his paradoxes. He was a contemporary of Aristotle, against whom he wrote with great bitterness. He taught logic to Demosthenes, and he is also said to have taught Apollonius Cronus, the teacher of Diodorus Cronus, and the historian Euphantus. He may have been the author of a book about Diogenes of Sinope.
Ethnology: Ethnology (from the Greek , ethnos meaning "people, nation, race") is the branch of anthropology that compares and analyzes the origins, distribution, technology, religion, language, and social structure of the ethnic, racial, and/or national divisions of humanity.
Endomembrane system: The endomembrane system is composed of the different membranes that are suspended in the cytoplasm within a eukaryotic cell. These membranes divide the cell into functional and structural compartments, or organelles. In eukaryotes the organelles of the endomembrane system include: the nuclear envelope, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, lysosomes, vacuoles, vesicles, and the cell membrane.
ETA: Euskadi Ta Askatasuna or ETA, is an armed Basque nationalist and separatist organization. The group was founded in 1959 and they evolved from a group promoting traditional Basque culture to a paramilitary group with the goal of gaining independence for the Greater Basque Country from a Marxist-Leninist perspective. ETA's motto is Bietan jarrai ("Keep up on both"). This refers to the two figures in its symbol, a snake (representing politics) wrapped around an axe (representing armed struggle).
Espagnole sauce: In cooking, espagnole sauce is one of the mother sauces that are the basis of sauce-making in classic French cooking. In the late 19th century, Auguste Escoffier codified the recipe, which is still followed today.
Electronic amplifier: An electronic amplifier is a device for increasing the power of a signal. It does this by taking energy from a power supply and controlling the output to match the input signal shape but with a larger amplitude. In this sense, an amplifier may be considered as modulating the output of the power supply.
Escort carrier: The escort aircraft carrier or escort carrier (popularly known as the jeep carrier or baby flattop), was a small and slow type of aircraft carrier used by the British Royal Navy, the Imperial Japanese Navy and Army, and the United States Navy in World War II. They were typically half the length and one-third the displacement of the larger fleet carriers. While they were slower, less well armed and armored, and carried fewer planes, they were less expensive and built in much larger numbers.
Eadgyth: Edith of England, also spelt Eadgyth or gyth, was the daughter of Edward the Elder, King of England and ffl, and the wife of Otto I, Holy Roman Emperor.
Eve disambiguation: Eve is the first woman created by God in the Book of Genesis. Eve may also refer to:
Extreme sport: An extreme sport (also called action sport and adventure sport) is a popular term for certain activities perceived as having a high level of inherent danger, and that are counter-cultural. These activities often involve speed, height, a high level of physical exertion, and highly specialized gear or spectacular stunts.
Kingdom of Essex: The Kingdom of Essex or Kingdom of the East Saxons was one of the seven traditional kingdoms of the so-called Anglo-Saxon Heptarchy. It was founded around 500 AD and covered the territory later occupied by the counties of Essex, Hertfordshire and Middlesex.
 thelberht of Kent: helberht (also helbert, Aethelberht, Aethelbert, or Ethelbert) (c. 560 - 24 February 616) was King of Kent from about 580 or 590 until his death. In his Ecclesiastical History of the English People, the monk Bede lists Aethelberht as the third king to hold imperium over other Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. In the late ninth century Anglo-Saxon Chronicle helberht is referred to as a bretwalda, or "Britain-ruler". He was the first English king to convert to Christianity.
Ed Sullivan: Edward Vincent "Ed" Sullivan (September 28, 1901 - October 13, 1974) was an American entertainment writer and television host of Irish origin, best known as the presenter of a TV variety show called The Ed Sullivan Show that was broadcast from 1948 until 1971. Its 23-year run made The Ed Sullivan Show one of the longest-running variety shows in U.S. broadcast history.
Erwin Schr dinger: Erwin Rudolf Josef Alexander Schringer (12 August 1887, Erdberg - 4 January 1961, Vienna) was an Austrian theoretical physicist who achieved fame for his contributions to quantum mechanics, especially the Schringer equation, for which he received the Nobel Prize in 1933. In 1935, after extensive correspondence with personal friend Albert Einstein, he proposed the Schringer's cat thought experiment.
Epistle to the Philippians: The Epistle of Paul to the Philippians, usually referred to simply as Philippians, is the eleventh book in the New Testament. Biblical scholars agree that it was written by the St. Paul to the church of Philippi. This authentic Pauline letter was written c 62.
Epistle to the Galatians: The Epistle of Paul to the Galatians, usually referred to simply as Galatians, is the ninth book of the New Testament. It is a letter from Paul of Tarsus to a number of Early Christian communities in the Roman province of Galatia in central Anatolia. The author is principally concerned with the controversy surrounding Gentile Christians and the Mosaic Law within Early Christianity, see also Paul of Tarsus and Judaism.
EasyWriter: EasyWriter was a word processor first written for the Apple II series computer in 1979, the first word processor for that platform. It was written by John Draper's Cap'n Software, which also produced a version of Forth, which EasyWriter was developed in. It was later ported to the IBM PC and released when the PC was announced in 1981. Draper developed EasyWriter while serving nights in the Alameda County Jail under a work furlough program.
Epistle to the Colossians: The Epistle of Paul to the Colossians, usually referred to simply as Colossians, is the 12th book of the New Testament. It was written, (according to the text), by Paul the Apostle to the Church in Colossae, a small Phrygian city near Laodicea and approximately 100 miles from Ephesus in Asia Minor..
First Epistle to the Thessalonians: The First Epistle of Paul to the Thessalonians, usually referred to simply as First Thessalonians and often written 1 Thessalonians, is a book from the New Testament of the Christian Bible. The first letter to the Thessalonians was likely the first of Paul's letters, probably written by the end of A.D. 52, making it, so far as is now known, the oldest existent Christian document (almost all scholars hold that the gospels were written over a decade later).
Epistle to Titus: The Epistle of Paul to Titus, usually referred to simply as Titus, is one of the three Pastoral Epistles, traditionally attributed to Saint Paul, and is part of the New Testament. It describes the requirements and duties of elders and bishops.
 lisabeth-Louise Vig e-Le Brun: isabeth-Louise Vig-Le Brun (16 April 1755 - 30 March 1842) was a French painter, and is recognized as the most famous woman painter of the eighteenth century. Her style is generally considered Rococo and shows interest in the subject of neoclassical painting. Vig-Le Brun cannot be considered a purely Neoclassist in that she creates mostly portraits in Neoclassical dress rather than the History painting.
Nitrox: Nitrox refers to any gas mixture composed (excluding trace gases) of nitrogen and oxygen; this includes normal air which is approximately 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen, and 1% other gases, primarily argon. However, in scuba diving, nitrox is normally differentiated and handled differently from air.
Elliptic integral: In integral calculus, elliptic integrals originally arose in connection with the problem of giving the arc length of an ellipse. They were first studied by Giulio Fagnano and Leonhard Euler. Modern mathematics defines an "elliptic integral" as any function f which can be expressed in the form where R is a rational function of its two arguments, P is the square root of a polynomial of degree 3 or 4 with no repeated roots, and c is a constant.
Epistle to the Romans: The Epistle of Paul to the Romans, usually referred to simply as Romans, is the sixth book in the New Testament. Biblical scholars agree that it was written by the Apostle Paul to explain that Salvation is offered through the Gospel of Jesus Christ. It is by far the longest of the Pauline epistles, and is considered his "most important theological legacy".
Eurovision Song Contest: The Eurovision Song Contest is an annual competition held among active member countries of the European Broadcasting Union (EBU). Each member country submits a song to be performed on live television and then casts votes for the other countries' songs to determine the most popular song in the competition. Each country participates via one of their national EBU-member television stations, whose task it is to select a singer and a song to represent their country in the international competition.
Eleanor of Aquitaine: Eleanor of Aquitaine (1122 - 1 April 1204) was one of the wealthiest and most powerful women in Western Europe during the High Middle Ages. As well as being Duchess of Aquitaine in her own right, she was queen consort of France 1137-1152 and queen consort of England 1154-1189. She was the patroness of such literary figures as Wace, Benot de Sainte-More, and Chrien de Troyes.
Epistle to Philemon: The Epistle of Paul to Philemon, usually referred to simply as Philemon, is a prison letter to Philemon from Paul of Tarsus. Philemon was a leader in the Colossian church. This letter, which is one of the books of the New Testament, deals with forgiveness. It is now generally regarded as one of the undisputed works of Paul. It is the shortest of Paul's extant letters, consisting of only 335 words in the original Greek text, and twenty-five verses in modern English translations.
Exhibition: An exhibition, in the most general sense, is an organized presentation and display of a selection of items. In practice, exhibitions usually occur within museums, galleries and exhibition halls. Exhibitions include art exhibitions, as in major art museums and small art galleries; interpretive exhibitions, as at natural history museums and history museums, for example; and commercial exhibitions, or trade fairs.
Elliptic curve cryptography: Elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) is an approach to public-key cryptography based on the algebraic structure of elliptic curves over finite fields. The use of elliptic curves in cryptography was suggested independently by Neal Koblitz and Victor S. Miller in 1985. Elliptic curves are also used in several integer factorization algorithms that have applications in cryptography, such as Lenstra elliptic curve factorization.
EDM: EDM may refer to: In information technology: Electronic direct marketing, another term for E-mail marketing Electronic Direct Mail Electronic document management, the tracking and storage of electronic documents Enterprise Data Management Enterprise Data Modeling Enterprise Decision Management Entity Data Model, the conceptual schema of data that Microsoft ADO.
European Commission: The European Commission is the executive of the European Union. The body is responsible for proposing legislation, implementing decisions, upholding the Union's treaties and the general day-to-day running of the Union. The Commission operates as a cabinet government, with 27 Commissioners. There is one Commissioner per member state, though Commissioners are bound to represent the interests of the EU as a whole rather than their home state.
Erik Satie: Error creating thumbnail: Invalid Parameter - white This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. Please improve this article if you can. ic Alfred Leslie Satie (Honfleur, 17 May 1866 - Paris, 1 July 1925) was a French composer and pianist. Starting with his first composition in 1884, he signed his name as Erik Satie. Satie was introduced as a "gymnopedist" in 1887, shortly before writing his most famous compositions, the Gymnopies.
Eden Project: The Eden Project is a visitor attraction in the United Kingdom, including the world's largest greenhouse. Inside the artificial biomes are plants that are collected from all around the world. The project is located in a reclaimed Kaolinite pit, located 2 kilometers (1.25 mi) from the town of St Blazey and 5 kilometres (3 mi) from the larger town of St Austell, Cornwall. The complex comprises a number of domes that house plant species from around the world, each dome emulating a natural biome.
Linear filter: A linear filter applies a linear operator to a time-varying input signal. Linear filters are very common in electronics and digital signal processing (see the article on electronic filters), but they can also be found in mechanical engineering and other technologies. They are often used to eliminate unwanted frequencies from an input signal or to select a desired frequency among many others.
Ergative case: The ergative case is the grammatical case that identifies the subject of a transitive verb in ergative-absolutive languages. In such languages, the ergative case is typically marked, while the absolutive case is unmarked. New work in case theory has vigorously supported the idea that the ergative case identifies the agent (the intentful performer of an action) of a verb (Woolford 2004).
Ewe: Ewe may refer to: Ewe people, an ethnic group in Ghana, Benin and Togo Ewe music, music of the Ewe people Ewe language, the language of the Ewe people a female domestic sheep EWE: the station code for Ewell East railway station in Ewell, Surrey. EwE: Ecopath with Ecosim, a fisheries ecological modelling computer system. Edwin Washington Edwards, former Governor of Louisiana, commonly referred to by his initials, EWE.
Eightfold Path policy analysis: The Eightfold Path is a method of policy analysis adapted by Eugene Bardach, a professor at the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California, Berkeley, from standard policy analysis texts. It is outlined in his book A Practical Guide for Policy Analysis: The Eightfold Path to More Effective Problem Solving, which is now in its second edition. The book is commonly used in public policy and public administration programs around the world.
Essenes: The Essenes were a Jewish religious group that flourished from the 2nd century BCE to the 1st century CE that some scholars claim seceded from the Zadokite priests. Being much fewer in number than the Pharisees and the Sadducees (the other two major sects at the time) the Essenes lived in various cities but congregated in communal life dedicated to asceticism, voluntary poverty, and abstinence from worldly pleasures, including marriage and daily baptisms.
Outline of engineering: Engineering is the practice and method of applying scientific and empirical knowledge to the service of humanity, and is distinct from the physical sciences, which are studies of the natural universe. The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to engineering:
Eyes Wide Shut: Eyes Wide Shut is a 1999 American/British neo-noir drama film directed, produced and co-written by Stanley Kubrick, based on the 1926 novella Traumnovelle by Arthur Schnitzler. It was Kubrick's last film before his death. The slightly surreal story, set in and around New York City, follows the sexually charged adventures of Dr. Bill Harford, who is shocked by the revelation by his wife, Alice, that she had contemplated an affair a year earlier.
Outline of education: Education is the process by which an individual is encouraged and enabled to develop his or her potential; it may also serve the purpose of equipping the individual with what is necessary to be a productive member of society. Through teaching and learning, the individual acquires and develops knowledge and skills.
Outline of entertainment: Entertainment is an event, exhibition, performance, or activity designed to give pleasure to an audience. Audiences may be entertained individually or as a group; they may participate actively or as passive spectators, depending on the type of entertainment. The branch of commercial activity that provides entertainment is collectively referred to as the entertainment industry. The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to entertainment:
Edda: The term Edda (Old Norse Edda, plural Eddur) applies to the Old Norse Poetic Edda and Prose Edda, both of which were written down in Iceland during the 13th century. They are the main sources of medieval Norse mythology and skaldic tradition in Iceland. Some of the older poems included may predate the date of their recording by several centuries, establishing continuity with the Viking Age.
Ephemeris time: The term ephemeris time (often abbreviated ET) can in principle refer to time in connection with any astronomical ephemeris. In practice it has been used more specifically to refer to: a former standard astronomical time scale adopted in 1952 by the IAU, and superseded in the 1970s. This time scale was proposed in 1948, to overcome the drawbacks of irregularly fluctuating mean solar time. The intent was to define a uniform time (as far as was then feasible) based on Newtonian theory.
EastEnders: EastEnders is a long-running, popular British television soap opera, first broadcast in the United Kingdom on BBC One on 19 February 1985. It currently ranks as one of the most watched shows in the UK. EastEnders storylines examine the domestic and professional lives of the people who live and work in the fictional London Borough of Walford in the East End of London.
Edward Mitchell Bannister: Edward Mitchell Bannister (ca. 1828 - January 9, 1901) was an African American painter whose tonalism and predominantly pastoral subject matter owed much to his admiration for Millet and the French Barbizon School. Bannister was born in St Andrews, New Brunswick, Canada and moved to New England in the late 1840s, where he remained for the rest of his life.
Embroidery: Embroidery is the art or handicraft of decorating fabric or other materials with needle and thread or yarn. Embroidery may also incorporate other materials such as metal strips, pearls, beads, quills, and sequins A characteristic of embroidery is that the basic techniques or stitches of the earliest workchain stitch, buttonhole or blanket stitch, running stitch, satin stitch, cross stitchremain the fundamental techniques of hand embroidery today.
Eiffel: Eiffel may refer to: Eiffel Tower in Paris Gustave Eiffel, engineer and designer of the Eiffel Tower Eiffel (company), successor of Gustave Eiffel's engineering company Eiffel (programming language), developed by Bertrand Meyer Eiffel Software, a software company Eiffel 65, an electronic music group "Alec Eiffel", a song by the alternative rock band Pixies
Emil Kraepelin: Emil Kraepelin (February 15, 1856 Neustrelitz - October 7, 1926 Munich) was a German psychiatrist. The Encyclopedia of Psychology by H. J. Eysenck identifies him as the founder of contemporary scientific psychiatry, as well as of psychopharmacology and psychiatric genetics. Kraepelin believed the chief origin of psychiatric disease to be biological and genetic malfunction.
Educational essentialism: Educational essentialism is an educational philosophy whose adherents believe that children should learn the traditional basic subjects and that these should be learned thoroughly and rigorously. An essentialist program normally teaches children progressively, from less complex skills to more complex. An Essentialist will usually teach some set subjects similar to Reading, Writing, Literature, Foreign Languages, History, Mathematics, Science, Art, and Music.
Progressive education: Educational progressivism is the belief that education must be based on the principle that humans are social animals who learn best in real-life activities with other people. Progressivists rely on the best available scientific theories of learning. Most progressive educators believe that children learn as if they were scientists, following a process similar to John Dewey's model of learning: Become aware of the problem. Define the problem. Propose hypotheses to solve it.
Electrode: An electrode is an electrical conductor used to make contact with a nonmetallic part of a circuit. The word was coined by the scientist Michael Faraday from the Greek words elektron (meaning amber, from which the word electricity is derived) and hodos, a way.
Evoluon: The Evoluon is a conference centre and former science museum erected by the electronics and electrical company Philips in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, in 1966. The building is unique due to its very futuristic design, resembling a landed flying saucer. It was designed by architect Louis Christiaan Kalff, while the exhibition was conceived by James Gardner. The building was based on an idea by Frits Philips, who originally made a sketch of the building on a paper napkin.
Electronic musical instrument: An electronic musical instrument is a musical instrument that produces its sounds using electronics. Such an instrument sounds by outputting an electrical audio signal that ultimately drives a loudspeaker. An electronic instrument may include a user interface for controlling its sound, often by adjusting the pitch, frequency, or duration of each note.
Epistolary novel: An epistolary novel is a novel written as a series of documents. The usual form is letters, although diary entries, newspaper clippings and other documents are sometimes used. Recently, electronic "documents" such as recordings and radio, blogs, and e-mails have also come into use. The word epistolary comes from the Latin word epistola, meaning a letter. The epistolary form can add greater realism and verisimilitude to a story, chiefly because it mimics the workings of real life.
Ettore Ximenes: Ettore Ximenes (April 11, 1855, Palermo - December 20, 1926, Rome) was an Italian sculptor of mostly religious and mythological subjects. There are several significant works by Ximenes in the United States. These include: Giovanni da Verrazzano, Battery Park, Manhattan, New York, 1909 Dante Alighieri in Dante Park at Lincoln Center, New York City and Meridian Hill Park, Washington D.C. - castings of the same work, 1921
Evidence-based medicine: Evidence-based medicine (EBM) aims to apply the best available evidence gained from the scientific method to medical decision making. It seeks to assess the quality of evidence of the risks and benefits of treatments (including lack of treatment). EBM recognizes that many aspects of medical care depend on individual factors such as quality- and value-of-life judgments, which are only partially subject to scientific methods.
End zone: The end zone is a term used in both Canadian football and American football. The end zone is the area between the end line and goal line bounded by the sidelines. There are two end zones, each being on an opposite side of the field. It is bordered on all sides by a white line indicating its beginning and end points, with orange, square pylons placed at each of the four corners as a visual aid.
Educational perennialism: Perennialists believe that one should teach the things that one deems to be of everlasting importance to all people everywhere. They believe that the most important topics develop a person. Since details of fact change constantly, these cannot be the most important. Therefore, one should teach principles, not facts. Since people are human, one should teach first about humans, not machines or techniques.
MDMA: MDMA (3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine, commonly known as Ecstasy) is an entactogenic drug of the phenethylamine and amphetamine families. MDMA is considered unusual for its tendency to induce a sense of intimacy with others and diminished feelings of fear, anxiety, and depression. Some have suggested it might have therapeutic benefits in certain individuals.
Anthem of Europe: "Ode to Joy" is the anthem of the European Union and the Council of Europe; both of which refer to it as the European Anthem due to the Council's intention that it represent Europe as a whole, rather than any organisation. It is based on the final movement of Beethoven's 9th Symphony composed in 1823, and is played on official occasions by both organisations.
Edsger W. Dijkstra: Edsger Wybe Dijkstra was a Dutch computer scientist. He received the 1972 Turing Award for fundamental contributions to developing programming languages, and was the Schlumberger Centennial Chair of Computer Sciences at The University of Texas at Austin from 1984 until 2000. Shortly before his death in 2002, he received the ACM PODC Influential Paper Award in distributed computing for his work on self-stabilization of program computation.
Flag of Europe: The Flag of Europe is the flag and emblem of the European Union (EU) and Council of Europe (CoE) (it is also used to indicate the euro or eurozone countries). It consists of a circle of 12 golden (yellow) stars on a blue background. The blue represents the west, the number of stars represents completeness while their position in a circle represents unity.
Timeline of evolution: This timeline of the evolution of life outlines the major events in the development of life on the planet Earth. For a thorough explanatory context, see the history of Earth, and geologic time scale. The dates given in this article are estimates based on scientific evidence. In biology, evolution is the process by which populations of organisms acquire and pass on novel traits from generation to generation.
Early music: Early music is commonly defined as European classical music from the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, sometimes also including the Baroque.
Edmund Burke: Edmund Burke PC (12 January 1729 - 9 July 1797) was an Anglo-Irish statesman, author, orator, political theorist, and philosopher who, after relocating to England, served for many years in the House of Commons of Great Britain as a member of the Whig party. He is mainly remembered for his opposition to the French Revolution.
Euroscepticism: Euroscepticism is a general term used to describe criticism of the European Union (EU), and opposition to the process of European integration. Traditionally, the main source of euroscepticism has been the notion that integration weakens the nation state. Other views occasionally seen as eurosceptic include perceptions of the EU being undemocratic or too bureaucratic.
EAN: EAN may refer to: European Article Number, see Global Trade Item Number EAN International, see GS1 Enriched Air Nitrox Ethernet Aggregation Network Emergency Action Notification, an activation of the Emergency Broadcast System.
Elfenland: Elfenland is a German-style board game designed by Alan R. Moon and published by Amigo Spiele in German and Rio Grande Games in English in 1998. It is originally based on his earlier game Elfenroads, but since Elfenroads took about four hours for a game, the play was simplified to reduce the time closer to an hour, making it appeal more as a family game. It won the Spiel des Jahres award in 1998 and won the third place Deutscher Spiele Preis award in 1998.
Estimator: In statistics, an estimator is a statistic (a function of the observable sample data) that is used to estimate an unknown population parameter (which is called the estimand); an estimate is the result from the actual application of the function to a particular sample of data. It is possible to construct many estimators for a given parameter: the construction and comparison of estimators forms estimation theory.
Emerald: Emeralds are a variety of the mineral beryl (Be3Al26) colored green by trace amounts of chromium and sometimes vanadium. Beryl has a hardness of 7.5-8 on the 10 point Mohs scale of mineral hardness. Most emeralds are highly included, so their toughness (resistance to breakage) is classified as generally poor.
Erie Canal: The Erie Canal is a waterway in New York that runs about 363 miles from Albany, New York on the Hudson River to Buffalo, New York at Lake Erie, completing a navigable water route from the Atlantic Ocean to the Great Lakes. First proposed in 1808, it was under construction from 1817 to 1832 and officially opened on October 26, 1825.
Ethanol: Ethanol, also called ethyl alcohol, pure alcohol, grain alcohol, or drinking alcohol, is a volatile, flammable, colorless liquid. It is a powerful psychoactive drug, best known as the type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages and in modern thermometers. Ethanol is one of the oldest recreational drugs. In common usage, it is often referred to simply as alcohol or spirits. Ethanol is a straight-chain alcohol, and its molecular formula is C2H5OH. Its empirical formula is C2H6O.
Eric Clapton: Eric Patrick Clapton, CBE (born 30 March 1945) is an English blues-rock guitarist, singer, songwriter and composer. Clapton has been inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a solo performer, as a member of rock bands; the Yardbirds and Cream. He is the only person ever to be inducted three times.
HP Enterprise Services: HP Enterprise Services, is a global business and technology services company, previously known as Electronic Data Systems (EDS), headquartered in Plano, Texas that defined the outsourcing business when it was established in 1962 by Ross Perot. General Motors acquired the company in 1984, spun it off again as an independent company in 1996, and became an EDS client. On May 13, 2008, Hewlett-Packard Co.
Etiology: Etiology (alternatively aetiology, aitiology) is the study of causation, or origination. The word is derived from the Greek , aitiologia, "giving a reason for" (, aitia, "cause"; and -, ').
Episcopal polity: Episcopal polity is a form of church governance which is hierarchical in structure with the chief authority over a local Christian church resting in a bishop . This episcopal structure is found most often in the various churches of Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox and other Eastern Church, and Anglican lineage. Some churches founded independently of these lineages also employ this form of church governance.
E2: E2, e2, E02, E.
Episcopal: Episcopal and episcopalian may refer to: Bishop, an overseer in the Christian church Episcopate, the see of a bishop, a diocese Episcopal polity, the church united under the oversight of bishops Episcopal Church, any church with "Episcopal" in its name
East Slavic languages: The East Slavic languages constitute one of three regional subgroups of Slavic languages, currently spoken in Eastern Europe. It is the group with the largest numbers of speakers, far out-numbering the Western and Southern Slavic groups. Current East Slavic languages are Belarusian, Russian, Ukrainian. Rusyn is considered to be either a separate language or a dialect of Ukrainian.
Elizabeth Gracen: Elizabeth Ward Gracen is an American actress known almost as much for her off-screen activities as for her movie and television roles. She was born Elizabeth Grace Ward but should not be confused with another Elizabeth Ward who worked as a television actress during the first half of the 1980s.
Epicurus: Epicurus was an ancient Greek philosopher and the founder of the school of philosophy called Epicureanism. Only a few fragments and letters remain of Epicurus's 300 written works. Much of what is known about Epicurean philosophy derives from later followers and commentators.
Epitaph: An epitaph is a short text honoring a deceased person, strictly speaking that is inscribed on their tombstone or plaque, but also used figuratively. Some are specified by the dead person beforehand, others chosen by those responsible for the burial. An epitaph may be in verse; poets have been known to compose their own epitaphs prior to their death, as W.B. Yeats did.
El Cid: Rodrigo Daz de Vivar (c. 1040 - July 10, 1099), known as El Cid Campeador, was a Castilian nobleman, a military leader and diplomat who, after being exiled, conquered and governed the city of Valencia. Rodrigo Daz was educated in the royal court of Castile and became the alfez, or chief general, of Alfonso VI, and his most valuable asset in the fight against the Moors. He is considered the national hero of Spain.
Empirical formula: In chemistry, the empirical formula of a chemical compound is the simplest whole number ratio of atoms of each element present in a compound. An empirical formula makes no reference to isomerism, structure, or absolute number of atoms. The empirical formula is used as standard for most ionic compounds, such as CaCl2, and for macromolecules, such as SiO2.
Epigram: An epigram is a brief, clever, and usually memorable statement. Derived from the Greek: (epi-gramma) "to write on - inscribe", the literary device has been employed for over two millennia. The Greek tradition of epigrams began as poems inscribed on votive offerings at sanctuaries including statues of athletes and on funerary monuments, for example "Go tell it to the Spartans, passer-by". These original epigrams did the same job as a short prose text might have done, but in verse.
Enjambment: Enjambment or enjambement is the breaking of a syntactic unit by the end of a line or between two verses. It is to be contrasted with end-stopping, where each linguistic unit corresponds with a single line, and caesura, in which the linguistic unit ends mid-line. The term is directly borrowed from the French enjambement, meaning "straddling" or "bestriding". The following lines from Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale (c.
English orthography: English orthography is the alphabetic spelling system used by the English language. English orthography, like other alphabetic orthographies, uses a set of rules that generally governs how speech sounds are represented in writing. English has relatively complicated spelling rules when compared to other languages with alphabetic orthographies.
European Convention on Nationality: The European Convention on Nationality (E.T.S. No. 166, signed in Strasbourg, 6 November 1997) is a comprehensive convention of the Council of Europe dealing with the law of nationality. Common practice among states at the beginning of the 20th century was that a woman was to have the nationality of her husband; thus upon marrying a foreigner she would automatically acquire the nationality of her husband, and lose her own nationality.
 thelred the Unready: helred the Unready, or helred II (c. 968 - 23 April 1016), was king of the English (978-1013 and 1014-1016). He was son of King Edgar and Queen fthryth. helred was only about 10 (no more than 13) when his half-brother Edward was murdered.
Edward Elgar: Sir Edward William Elgar, 1st Baronet, OM, GCVO (2 June 1857 - 23 February 1934) was an English composer. He is known for such works as the Enigma Variations, the Pomp and Circumstance Marches, The Dream of Gerontius, concertos for violin and cello, and two symphonies. He also composed oratorios, chamber music and songs. He was appointed Master of the King's Musick in 1924.
European Investment Fund: The European Investment Fund, established in 1994, is a European Union agency for the provision of finance to SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) headquartered in Luxembourg. It does not lend money to SMEs directly; rather it provides finance through private banks. Its main operations are in the areas of venture capital and guaranteeing loans.
European Currency Unit: The European Currency Unit was a basket of the currencies of the European Community member states, used as the unit of account of the European Community before being replaced by the euro on January 1, 1999, at parity. The ECU itself replaced the European Unit of Account, also at parity, on March 13, 1979. The European Exchange Rate Mechanism attempted to minimize fluctuations between member state currencies and the ECU.
East Caribbean dollar: The East Caribbean dollar is the currency of eight of the nine members of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (the one exception being the British Virgin Islands). It has existed since 1965, being the successor to the British West Indies dollar, and it is normally abbreviated with the dollar sign $ or, alternatively, EC$ to distinguish it from other dollar-denominated currencies. The EC$ is subdivided into 100 cents.
Erythromycin: Erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic that has an antimicrobial spectrum similar to or slightly wider than that of penicillin, and is often used for people who have an allergy to penicillins. For respiratory tract infections, it has better coverage of atypical organisms, including mycoplasma and Legionellosis. It was first marketed by Eli Lilly and Company, and it is today commonly known as EES (erythromycin ethylsuccinate, an ester prodrug that is commonly administered).
Environmental law: Environmental law is a complex and interlocking body of treaties, conventions, statutes, regulations, and common law that, very broadly, operate to regulate the interaction of humanity and the rest of the biophysical or natural environment, toward the purpose of reducing the impacts of human activity, both on the natural environment and on humanity itself. The topic may be divided into two major areas: (1) pollution control and remediation, and (2) resource conservation and management.
Equinox: An equinox occurs twice a year, when the tilt of the Earth's axis is inclined neither away from nor towards the Sun, the Sun being vertically above a point on the Equator. The term equinox can also be used in a broader sense, meaning the date when such a passage happens. The name "equinox" is derived from the Latin aequus (equal) and nox (night), because around the equinox, the night and day are approximately equally long.
Eugene Wigner: Eugene Paul "E. P. " Wigner (Hungarian Wigner Jen P; November 17, 1902 - January 1, 1995) was a Hungarian American physicist and mathematician. He received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1963 "for his contributions to the theory of the atomic nucleus and the elementary particles, particularly through the discovery and application of fundamental symmetry principles".
Elara: Elara may refer to one of the following: Elara (moon), a moon of Jupiter Elara (mythology), the mother of Tityas in Greek mythology Elara (monarch), an ancient Sri Lankan king
Eurostar: Eurostar is a high-speed passenger rail service connecting London with Paris and Brussels. All its trains cross under the English Channel via the Channel Tunnel between Britain and France, owned and operated separately by Eurotunnel. The London terminal is St Pancras, with calling points at Ebbsfleet International and Ashford International in Kent. Calling points in France are Calais-Frhun and Lille-Europe, with the main Paris terminus at Gare du Nord.
Electroweak interaction: In particle physics, the electroweak interaction is the unified description of two of the four fundamental interactions of nature: electromagnetism and the weak interaction. Although these two forces appear very different at everyday low energies, the theory models them as two different aspects of the same force. Above the unification energy, on the order of 100 GeV, they would merge into a single electroweak force.
Erasmus Reinhold: Erasmus Reinhold (October 22, 1511 - February 19, 1553) was a German astronomer and mathematician, considered to be the most influential astronomical pedagogue of his generation. He was born and died in Saalfeld, Thuringia, Germany. He was educated, under Jacob Milich, at the University of Wittenberg, where he was first elected dean and later became rector. In 1536 he was appointed professor of higher mathematics by Philipp Melanchthon.
Earthquake: An earthquake (also known as a quake, tremor, or temblor) is the result of a sudden release of energy in the Earth's crust that creates seismic waves. Earthquakes are recorded with a seismometer, also known as a seismograph. The moment magnitude (or the related and mostly obsolete Richter magnitude) of an earthquake is conventionally reported, with magnitude 3 or lower earthquakes being mostly and magnitude 7 causing serious damage over large areas.
Emperor of Japan: The Emperor (, tenn, literally "heavenly emperor," formerly referred to as the Mikado) of Japan is the symbol of the state and of the unity of the Japanese people. He is the head of the Japanese Imperial Family. He is also the highest authority of the Shinto religion. Under Japan's present constitution, the Emperor is the "symbol of the state and the unity of the people," and is a ceremonial figurehead in a constitutional monarchy.
Esotericism: Esotericism or Esoterism is a term with two basic meanings. In the dictionary sense of the term, "esoterism" signifies the holding of opinions or beliefs, and derives from the Greek (eserikos), a compound of (es): "", thus "pertaining to the more inward", mystic. Its antonym is "exoteric".
Egalitarianism: Egalitarianism (derived from the French word al, meaning "equal") has two distinct definitions in modern English. It is defined either as a political doctrine that holds that all people should be treated as equals and have the same political, economic, social, and civil rights or as a social philosophy advocating the removal of economic inequalities among people. In modern cultures, peoples tend to be divided into upper and lower classes.
Expert witness: An expert witness or professional witness is an expert, who by virtue of education, training, skill, or experience, is believed to have expertise and specialised knowledge in a particular subject beyond that of the average person, sufficient that others may officially and legally rely upon the witness's specialized (scientific, technical or other) opinion about an evidence or fact issue within the scope of his expertise, referred to as the expert opinion, as an assistance to the fact-finder.
Emperor: An emperor is a (male) monarch, usually the sovereign ruler of an empire or another type of imperial realm. Empress is the female equivalent. As a title, "empress" may indicate the wife of an emperor or a woman who rules in her own right. Emperors and empresses are generally recognized to be above kings and queens in honour and rank. Currently, the Emperor of Japan is the only monarch who has the title of Emperor.
Ezra Abbot: Ezra Abbot was an American biblical scholar.
Endocytosis: Endocytosis is the process by which cells absorb molecules (such as proteins) from outside the cell by engulfing it with their cell membrane. It is used by all cells of the body because most substances important to them are large polar molecules that cannot pass through the hydrophobic plasma membrane or cell membrane. The process opposite to endocytosis is exocytosis.
Edwin Abbott Abbott: Edwin Abbott Abbott (20 December 1838 - 12 October 1926), English schoolmaster and theologian, is best known as the author of the mathematical satire and religious allegory Flatland (1884).
Emma Abbott: Emma Abbott (December 9, 1850 - January 5, 1891) was an American operatic soprano and impresario known for her pure, clear voice of great flexibility and volume.
Epimetheus: Epimetheus may mean one of several things: Epimetheus (mythology), the Titan from Greek mythology Epimetheus (moon), the moon of Saturn 1810 Epimetheus, an asteroid Epimetheus Society, a high-IQ society
Emperor Sh mu: Emperor Shmu ( Shmu Tenn) (701 - June 4, 756) was the 45th Emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years 724 through 749.
Emperor Kammu: Emperor Kammu (737-806) was the 50th imperial ruler of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 781 through 806.
Enceladus: Enceladus can refer to: Enceladus (mythology), one of the Gigantes (giants) in Greek mythology Enceladus (moon), a natural satellite of Saturn
Emperor Jimmu: Emperor Jimmu; also known as: Kamuyamato Iwarebiko; given name: Wakamikenu no Mikoto or Sano no Mikoto, was the mythical founder of Japan and is the first emperor named in the traditional lists of emperors. The Imperial house of Japan traditionally based its claim to the throne on its descent from Jimmu. No firm dates can be assigned to this early emperor's life or reign, nor for the reigns of his early successors.
Event horizon: In general relativity, an event horizon is a boundary in spacetime, most often an area surrounding a black hole, beyond which events cannot affect an outside observer. Light emitted from beyond the horizon can never reach the observer, and any object that approaches the horizon from the observer's side appears to slow down and never quite pass through the horizon, with its image becoming more and more redshifted as time elapses.
Elizabeth I of England: Elizabeth I (7 September 1533 - 24 March 1603) was Queen regnant of England and Queen regnant of Ireland from 17 November 1558 until her death. Sometimes called the Virgin Queen, Gloriana, or Good Queen Bess, Elizabeth was the fifth and last monarch of the Tudor dynasty. The daughter of Henry VIII, she was born a princess, but her mother, Anne Boleyn, was executed two and a half years after her birth, and Elizabeth was declared illegitimate.
Elias Boudinot: Elias Boudinot (May 2, 1740 - October 24, 1821) was a lawyer and statesman from Elizabeth, New Jersey who was a delegate to the Continental Congress and a U.S. Congressman for New Jersey. He also served as President of the Continental Congress from 1782 to 1783 and Director of the United States Mint from 1795 until 1805.
Electromagnetic spectrum: The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation. The "electromagnetic spectrum" of an object is the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object. The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below frequencies used for modern radio to gamma radiation at the short-wavelength end, covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
Edward de Vere 17th Earl of Oxford: Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford (12 April 1550 - 24 June 1604) was an Elizabethan courtier, playwright, poet, sportsman, patron of numerous writers, and sponsor of at least two acting companies, Oxford's Men and Oxford's Boys, and a company of musicians. He was born at Castle Hedingham to the 16th Earl of Oxford and the former Margery Golding.
Erinyes: In Greek mythology the Erines (, pl. of , Erins; lit. "the angry ones") or Eumendes (, pl. of ; lit. "the gracious ones") or Furies in Roman mythology were female chthonic deities of vengeance or supernatural personifications of the anger of the dead. They represent regeneration and the potency of creation, which both consumes and empowers.
East Coast Swing: East Coast Swing (ECS) is a form of social partner dance. It belongs to the group of swing dances. It is danced under fast swing music, including rock and roll and boogie-woogie.
Ernst Kaltenbrunner: Ernst Kaltenbrunner (4 October 1903 - 16 October 1946) was a senior Austrian official during World War II, holding the offices of Chief of the RSHA, and (from 1943 to 1945) President of Interpol. He was the highest-ranking SS leader to face trial at the first Nuremberg Trials, having the full rank of Obergruppenfhrer und General der Polizei und Waffen-SS. He was found guilty of war crimes and crimes against humanity and executed.
Expert system: An expert system is software that attempts to provide an answer to a problem, or clarify uncertainties where normally one or more human experts would need to be consulted. Expert systems are most common in a specific problem domain, and is a traditional application and/or subfield of artificial intelligence.
Engelbert Dollfuss: Engelbert Dollfu (October 4, 1892 - July 25, 1934) was an Austrian Christian Social and Patriotic Front statesman, who was chancellor of Austria from 1932 and right-wing dictator of Austria from 1933 until his assassination by Nazi agents in 1934.
Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair: Marquess of Aberdeen and Temair, in the County of Aberdeen, in the County of Meath and in the County of Argyll, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 4 January 1916 for John Hamilton-Gordon, 7th Earl of Aberdeen. The Gordon family descends from John Gordon, who fought as a Royalist against the Covenanters in the Civil War. In 1642 he was created a Baronet, of Haddo in the County of Aberdeen, in the Baronetage of Nova Scotia.
E. T. A. Hoffmann: Ernst Theodor Wilhelm Hoffmann (January 24, 1776 - June 25, 1822), better known by his pen name E.T.A. Hoffmann (Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann), was a German Romantic author of fantasy and horror, a jurist, composer, music critic, draftsman and caricaturist. He is the subject and hero of Jacques Offenbach's famous but fictional opera The Tales of Hoffmann, and the author of the novelette The Nutcracker and the Mouse King, on which the famous ballet The Nutcracker is based.
Encyclopedia Brown: Leroy "Encyclopedia" Brown is a fictional boy detective, the main character in a long series of children's novels written by Donald J. Sobol since 1963.
Empire: The term empire derives from the Latin imperium. Politically, an empire is a geographically extensive group of states and peoples united and ruled either by a monarch (emperor, empress) or an oligarchy. Geopolitically, the term empire has denoted very different, territorially-extreme states at the strong end, the extensive Spanish Empire (16th c. ) and the British Empire (19th c. ), at the weak end, the Holy Roman Empire (8th c. -19th c.
Desiderius Erasmus: Desiderius Erasmus Roterodamus (sometimes known as Desiderius Erasmus of Rotterdam) (October 28, 1466/1469, Rotterdam - July 12, 1536, Basel) was a Dutch Renaissance humanist and a Catholic priest and theologian.
Final Solution: The Final Solution was Nazi Germany's plan and execution of the systematic genocide of European Jews during World War II, resulting in the final, most deadly phase of the Holocaust. Heinrich Himmler was the chief architect of the plan, and the German Nazi leader Adolf Hitler termed it: "the final solution of the Jewish question" ("die Endlung der Judenfrage").
Effects unit: Effects units are electronic devices that affect the sound of an electric or electronic instrument or other audio source. Effects can be used in "real time", during a live performance, or in post-production, with recorded vocals and instruments. To use an effect in a live performance, the effect is plugged in to the electrical signal path of the instrument. In a post-production setting, the source's auxiliary output is patched into the effect.
Enron: "ENRON" redirects here. For the play of that title, see ENRON (play). Enron Corporation (former NYSE ticker symbol ENE) was an American energy company based in Houston, Texas. Before its bankruptcy in late 2001, Enron employed approximately 22,000 staff and was one of the world's leading electricity, natural gas, communications and pulp and paper companies, with claimed revenues of nearly $101 billion in 2000. Fortune named Enron "America's Most Innovative Company" for six consecutive years.
Eurystheus: In Greek mythology, Eurystheus ( meaning "wide strength" in folk etymology) was king of Tiryns, one of three Mycenaean strongholds in the Argolid: Sthenelus was his father and the "victorious horsewoman" Nicippe his mother, and he was a grandson of the hero Perseus, as was his opponent Heracles. He was married to Antimache, daughter of Amphidamas.
Eusebius of Alexandria: Eusebius of Alexandria is an author to whom certain extant homilies are attributed. These homilies enjoyed some renown in the Eastern Church in the sixth and seventh centuries. Their homiletical merit does not rise above mediocrity, and nothing is known of the author. In all events, he was not a patriarch of Alexandria, as is affirmed in an early biography (MPG, lxxxvi. 1, pp.
Eusebius of Angers: Eusebius (Bruno) of Angers (died September 1, 1081) was bishop of Angers, France. He first appears in the historical record as bishop of Angers at the synod of Rheims in 1049, and for a long time had been an adherent of Berengar's doctrine of the Lord's Supper. As such he was regarded by Berengar himself and by his opponents Dietwin of Liege (Theodwin), Durand of Troarne, and Humbert of Mourmoutiers.
Eusebius of Caesarea: Eusebius of Caesarea, c. 263-339, called Eusebius Pamphili, became the Bishop of Caesarea, in Palestine, about the year 314. He flourished during the time of Constantine the Great and Constantius. His surname Pamphilus came from his relationship with Pamphilus the martyr. Eusebius, historian, exegete and polemicist is one of the more renowned Church Fathers. He (with Pamphilus) was a most diligent investigator of the Canon.
Empiricism: In the philosophy of science, empiricism emphasizes those aspects of scientific knowledge that are closely related to evidence, especially as discovered in experiments. It is a fundamental part of the scientific method that all hypotheses and theories must be tested against observations of the natural world, rather than resting solely on a priori reasoning, intuition, or revelation. Hence, science is considered to be methodologically empirical in nature.
Estampie: The medieval dance and musical form called the estampie in French, the estampida in Occitan, and istampitta (also istanpitta or stampita) in Italian was a popular instrumental style of the 13th and 14th centuries.
Experimental cancer treatment: Experimental cancer treatments are medical therapies intended or claimed to treat cancer by improving on, supplementing or replacing conventional methods. The entries listed below vary between theoretical therapies to unproven controversial therapies. Many of these treatments are alleged to only help against specific forms of cancer. It is not a list of treatments widely available at hospitals.
Environmental movement in the United States: In the United States today, the organized environmental movement is represented by a wide range of organizations sometimes called non-governmental organizations or NGOs. These organizations exist on local, national, and international scales. Environmental NGOs vary widely in political views and in the amount they seek to influence the environmental policy of the United States and other governments.
Environmentalist: An environmentalist supports any goal of the environmental movement, an information-based perspective on appropriate use of technology to prevent adverse effects on the environment. An environmentalist is engaged in or believes in the philosophy of environmentalism. Most politically inclined environmentalists identify themselves as greens and they have strong views on issues that concern the environment.
Eusebius of Nicomedia: Eusebius of Nicomedia (died 341) was the man who baptised Constantine. He was a bishop of Berytus in Phoenicia, then of Nicomedia where the imperial court resided in Bithynia, and finally of Constantinople from 338 up to his death.
Edo: Edo, literally:, also romanized as Yedo or Yeddo, is the former name of the Japanese capital Tokyo, and was the seat of power for the Tokugawa shogunate which ruled Japan from 1603 to 1868. During this period it grew to become one of the largest cities in the world and the site of a vibrant urban culture centered on notions of the "floating world".
Explosive material: An explosive material, also called an explosive, is a substance that contains a great amount of stored energy that can produce an explosion, a sudden expansion of the material after initiation, usually accompanied by the production of light, heat, and pressure. An explosive charge is a measured quantity of explosive material.
Orthodox Church: The Orthodox Church, also officially called the Orthodox Catholic Church and commonly referred to in English-speaking countries as the Eastern Orthodox Church, is the world's second largest Christian communion, estimated to number 300 million members. It asserts that it is the One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church established by Jesus Christ and his Apostles almost 2,000 years ago.
Exothermic: In thermodynamics, the term exothermic ("outside heating") describes a process or reaction that releases energy usually in the form of heat, but also in the form of light (e.g. a spark, flame, or explosion), electricity (e.g. a battery), or sound. Its etymology stems from the Greek prefix ex- (meaning "outside") and the Greek word thermein (meaning "to heat"). The term exothermic was first coined by Marcellin Berthelot.
Enter the Dragon: Enter the Dragon aka. The Deadly Three, originally titled Blood and Steel is a 1973 American martial arts action film directed by Robert Clouse; starring martial artists Bruce Lee and Jim Kelly, as well as actor John Saxon. This is Bruce Lee's final film appearance before his death on July 20, 1973. Six days after Bruce Lee's death, the film was released. In 2004, Enter the Dragon was deemed "culturally significant" and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.
East India Company disambiguation: East India Company (also English East India Company, British East India Company) was a historical English company, founded in 1600, and chartered with the monopoly of trading with Southeast Asia, East Asia, and India.
Elihu Yale: Elihu Yale (April 5, 1649 - July 8, 1721) was a British merchant, philanthropist, governor of the British East India Company, and a benefactor of Collegiate School of Connecticut, which in 1718 was named Yale University in his honor.
Economic security: Economic security or financial security is the condition of having stable income or other resources to support a standard of living now and in the foreseeable future. It includes probable continued solvency predictability of the future cash flow of a person or other economic entity, such as a country employment security or job security Financial security more often refers to individual and family money management and savings.
 mile Baudot: Jean-Maurice-ile Baudot (September 11, 1845 - March 28, 1903), French telegraph engineer and inventor of the first means of digital communication Baudot code, was one of the pioneers of telecommunications. He invented a multiplexed printing telegraph system that used his code and allowed multiple transmissions over a single line.
Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution: Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) (also known as Enhanced GPRS, or IMT Single Carrier, or Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution) is a backward-compatible digital mobile phone technology that allows improved data transmission rates, as an extension on top of standard GSM. EDGE is considered a 3G radio technology and is part of ITU's 3G definition. EDGE was deployed on GSM networks beginning in 2003 initially by Cingular (now AT&T) in the United States.
Euphrates: The Euphrates is the longest and historically one of the most important rivers of Southwest Asia. Together with the Tigris, the Euphrates is one of the two defining rivers of Mesopotamia. The river - originating in the Taurus Mountains - flows through Syria and Iraq to join the Tigris in the Shatt al-Arab, which flows into the Persian Gulf.
Estonian language: Estonian is the official language of Estonia, spoken by about 1.1 million people in Estonia and tens of thousands in various igr communities. It is an Uralic language and is closely related to Finnish. One distinctive feature that has caused a great amount of interest in linguists is what is traditionally seen as three degrees of phoneme length: short, long, and "overlong", such that /toto/, /too/ and /too/ are distinct.
E-Prime: E-Prime (short for English-Prime) is a form of the English language from which the verb to be in all its forms is avoided by the writer or speaker. Thus, E-Prime does not contain the words "be", "is", "am", "are", "was", "were", "been" and "being", nor does it contain their contractions "'m", "'s", and "'re". E-Prime therefore re-phrases most statements which use the passive voice, thus encouraging writers and speakers to clearly state an action's agent.
Eth Nord: Eth is a commune in the Nord department in northern France. It is about 10 km (6.2 mi) east-southeast of Valenciennes. Residents are called Ethois (plural Ethoises).
Equidae: Equidae (sometimes known as the horse family) is the taxonomic family of horses and related animals, including the extant horses, donkeys, and zebras, and many other species known only from fossils. All extant species are in the genus Equus. Equidae belongs to the order Perissodactyla, which includes the extant tapirs and rhinoceros, and still more fossils. The term equid refers to any member of this family, including any equine.
Eth: Eth (, ; also spelled edh or e) is a letter used in Old English, Icelandic, Faroese (in which it is called edd), and Elfdalian. It was also used in Scandinavia during the Middle Ages, but was subsequently replaced with dh and later d. The capital eth resembles a D with a line partially through the vertical stroke. The lower case resembles an insular d with a line through the top. The letter originated in Irish writing (Freeborn 1992, 24) as a d with a cross-stroke added.
List of economists: This is an alphabetical list of notable economists, that is, experts in the social science of economics. There is also a separate list of politicians with economics training.
ELIZA: ELIZA was a computer program and an early example (by modern standards) of primitive natural language processing. ELIZA operated by processing users' responses to scripts, the most famous of which was DOCTOR, a simulation of a Rogerian psychotherapist. In this mode, ELIZA mostly rephrased the user's statements as questions and posed those to the 'patient. ' ELIZA was written by Joseph Weizenbaum between 1964 to 1966.
Elliptic curve: File:EllipticCurveCatalog. svg A catalog of elliptic curves. Region shown is [&minus;3,3] (For a = 0 and b = 0 it's not smooth and therefore not an elliptic curve. ) In mathematics, an elliptic curve is a smooth, projective algebraic curve of genus one, on which there is a specified point O. An elliptic curve is in fact an abelian variety that is, it has a multiplication defined algebraically with respect to which it is an abelian group and O serves as the identity element.
Exponentiation by squaring: Exponentiating by squaring is a general method for fast computation of large integer powers of a number. Some variants are commonly referred to as square-and-multiply algorithms or binary exponentiation. In additive notation the appropriate term is double-and-add. These can be of quite general use: for example in modular arithmetic or powering of matrices.
ELIZA effect: The ELIZA effect, in computer science, is the tendency to unconsciously assume computer behaviors are analogous to human behaviors. In its specific form, the ELIZA effect refers only to "the susceptibility of people to read far more understanding than is warranted into strings of symbols - especially words - strung together by computers".
Exon: An exon is a nucleic acid sequence that is represented in the mature form of an RNA molecule after either portions of a precursor RNA have been removed by cis-splicing or by two or more precursor RNA molecules have been ligated by trans-splicing. The mature RNA molecule can be a messenger RNA or a functional form of a non-coding RNA such as rRNA or tRNA. Depending on the context, exon can refer to the sequence in the DNA or its RNA transcript.
Exxon: Exxon is a brand of motor fuel and related products sold by ExxonMobil. From 1972 to 1999, Exxon was the corporate name of the company previously known as Standard Oil Company of New Jersey or Jersey Standard.
Edouard de Pomiane: Edouard Alexandre de Pomiane, sometimes Edouard Pozerski (20 April 1875 - 26 January 1964) was a French scientist, radio broadcaster and food writer. His parents emigrated from Poland in 1863, changed their name from Pozerski to de Pomiane, and became French citizens. De Pomiane worked as a physician at the Institut Pasteur in Paris, where he gave Fix d'Herelle a place to work on bacteriophages.
Edward VI of England: Edward VI (12 October 1537-6 July 1553) became King of England and Ireland on 28 January 1547 and was crowned on 20 February at the age of nine. The son of Henry VIII and Jane Seymour, Edward was the third monarch of the Tudor dynasty and England's first ruler who was raised as a Protestant. During Edward's reign, the realm was governed by a Regency Council, because he never reached maturity.
Egolessness: In psychology, egolessness is an emotional state where one feels no ego; of having no distinct being apart from the world around oneself. From the view of Western psychoanalysis and therapy, the state of "oneness" can be either positive or negative depending on the patient, and in the context in which these feelings occur in each patient. The described feeling of oneness (of being inextricably woven to the fabric of one's surroundings or environment) is thought to be akin to egolessness.
Extrapyramidal: Extrapyramidal can refer to: Extrapyramidal system Extrapyramidal symptoms
Exxon Valdez oil spill: The Exxon Valdez oil spill occurred in the Prince William Sound, Alaska, on March 24, 1989. It is considered one of the most devastating human-caused environmental disasters ever to occur at sea. As significant as the Valdez spill was, it ranks well down on the list of the world's largest oil spills in terms of volume released.
Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator: Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator (EDSAC) was an early British computer. The machine, having been inspired by John von Neumann's seminal First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC, was constructed by Maurice Wilkes and his team at the University of Cambridge Mathematical Laboratory in England. EDSAC was the first practical stored-program electronic computer. Later the project was supported by J. Lyons & Co. Ltd.
Epinephrine: Epinephrine, widely called adrenaline, is a hormone and neurotransmitter. When produced in the body it increases heart rate, contracts blood vessels and dilates air passages and participates in the fight-or-flight response of the sympathetic nervous system. It is a catecholamine, a monoamine produced only by the adrenal glands from the amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine.
Enterobacteriaceae: The Enterobacteriaceae are a large family of bacteria, including many of the more familiar pathogens, such as Salmonella and Escherichia coli. Genetic studies place them among the Proteobacteria, and they are given their own order (Enterobacteriales), though this is sometimes taken to include some related environmental samples.
E. H. Shepard: Ernest Howard Shepard (10 December 1879 - 24 March 1976) was an English artist and book illustrator. He was known especially for his human-like animals in illustrations for The Wind in the Willows by Kenneth Grahame and Winnie-the-Pooh by A. A. Milne.
Essendon Football Club: Essendon Football Club, nicknamed The Bombers, is an Australian rules football club and is part of the Australian Football League. Formed in 1871 as a junior club and as a senior club in 1873, it is headquartered at the Essendon Recreation Reserve, Windy Hill in the Melbourne suburb of Essendon, but match day home games are played at Etihad Stadium or the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Essendon has won 16 VFL/AFL premierships which, along with Carlton, is the most of any club in the AFL.
Epipaleolithic: The Epipaleolithic is a term used for the "final Upper Palaeolithic industries occurring at the end of the final glaciation which appear to merge technologically into the Mesolithic". The term is sometimes confused with Mesolithic, and the two are sometimes used as synonyms.
Executive government: On the study of political science the executive branch of government has sole authority and responsibility for the daily administration of the state bureaucracy. The division of power into separate branches of government is central to the republican idea of the separation of powers . In many countries the term "government" connotes only the executive branch. However, this branch fails to differentiate between despotic and democratic forms of government.
Entente: Entente, meaning a diplomatic "understanding," may refer to a number of agreements:
Enrico Fermi: Enrico Fermi (29 September 1901 - 28 November 1954) was an Italian physicist, particularly remembered for his work on the development of the first nuclear reactor, and for his contributions to the development of quantum theory, nuclear and particle physics, and statistical mechanics. Awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1938 for his work on induced radioactivity, Fermi is widely regarded as one of the leading scientists of the 20th century, highly accomplished in both theory and experiment.
Editor war: Editor war is the common name for the rivalry between users of the vi and Emacs text editors. The rivalry has become a lasting part of hacker culture and the free software community. Many flame wars have been fought between groups insisting that their editor of choice is the paragon of editing perfection, and insulting the others. Unlike the related battles over operating systems, programming languages, and even source code indent style, choice of editor usually only affects oneself.
Orthodox Church organization: This article covers the organization of the Eastern Orthodox Churches rather than the doctrines, traditions, practices, or other aspects of Eastern Orthodoxy. Like the Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church claims to be the One Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church. The term Western Orthodoxy is sometimes used to denominate what is technically a Vicariate within the Antiochian Orthodox Church and thus a part of the Eastern Orthodox Church as that term is defined here.
Enid Blyton: Enid Mary Blyton (11 August 1897 - 28 November 1968) was a British children's writer known as both Enid Blyton and Mary Pollock. She was one of the most successful children's storytellers of the twentieth century. She is noted for numerous series of books based on recurring characters and designed for different age groups. Her books have enjoyed popular success in many parts of the world, and have sold over 600 million copies.
EDT: EDT may refer to: Eastern Daylight Time (UTC4), observed in the North American Eastern Time Zone during daylight saving time Eastern Daylight Time (UTC+11), a daylight saving time in Australia Eau de toilette, see perfume Electrodynamic tether EDT text editor Event dispatching thread, a background thread used in Java programming language Chicago Engineering Design Team, a robotics team Enthrone Darkness Triumphant, album by Dimmu Borgir
Erdo an Atalay: Erdoan Atalay (born on September 22, 1966 in Hanover, Germany) is a Turkish-German actor.
Electric guitar: An electric guitar is a guitar using pickups to convert its metal string vibration into electricity. This is amplified with an instrument amplifier. The output is altered with guitar effects such as reverb or distortion. The earliest electric guitars were hollow bodied acoustic instruments with tungsten steel pickups made by Rickenbacker in 1931.
Embryo drawing: Embryo drawing refers to any representation of the illustration of embryos in their developmental sequence. In plants and animals, an embryo develops from a zygote, the single cell that results when an egg and sperm fuse during fertilization. In animals, the zygote divides repeatedly to form a ball of cells, which then forms a set of tissue layers that migrate and fold to form an early embryo. Images of embryos provide a means of comparing embryos of different ages, and species.
Ennio Morricone: Ennio Morricone, OMRI (born November 10, 1928), is an Italian composer and conductor. He has composed and arranged scores for more than 500 film and television productions. Morricone is considered as one of the most influential film composers since the late 1950s. He is well-known for his long-term collaborations with international acclaimed directors such as Sergio Leone, Brian De Palma, Barry Levinson, and Giuseppe Tornatore.
Emin Boztepe: Emin Boztepe (17 June 1962 in Eskiehir, Turkey -) is a Turkish martial artist. He was a prominent member of Leung Ting's Wing Tsun organisation until 2002. Boztepe's family was originally from Emirda. In 1966, he moved to Germany, where he started his martial arts training when he was 14. According to Boztepe, his early days in Germany were not easy due to his Turkish heritage.
Eligible receiver: In American football and Canadian football, not all players on offense are entitled to receive a forward pass. Only an eligible pass receiver may legally catch a forward pass, and only an eligible receiver may advance beyond the neutral zone if a forward pass which crosses the neutral zone is thrown.
Erlang unit: The erlang (symbol E) is a dimensionless unit (i.e. , it labels a quantity that has no dimensions such as mass, length, or time) that is used in telephony as a statistical measure of offered load or carried load on service-providing elements such as telephone circuits or telephone switching equipment. It is named after the Danish telephone engineer A. K. Erlang, the originator of traffic engineering and queueing theory.
Emsworth: Emsworth is a small town the south coast of England, situated on the Hampshire side of the border between Hampshire and West Sussex. The town lies at the north end of an arm of Chichester Harbour, a large but shallow inlet of the English Channel. Emsworth has a population of approximately 10,000 people. In the 19th century Emsworth had as many as 30 pubs and beer houses, probably to do with the fact that Emsworth was a fishing village.
Hirohito: Hirohito, also known as The Shwa Emperor, (April 29, 1901 - January 7, 1989) was the 124th Emperor of Japan according to the traditional order, reigning from December 25, 1926, until his death in 1989. Although better known outside of Japan by his personal name Hirohito, he is now referred to exclusively by his posthumous name Emperor Shwa in Japan. The word Shwa is the name of the era that corresponded with the Emperor's reign, and was made the Emperor's own name upon his death.
Enthalpy: Statistical mechanics File:Bose Einstein condensate.
Emulsion: An emulsion is a mixture of two or more immiscible (unblendable) liquids. Emulsions are part of a more general class of two-phase systems of matter called colloids. Although the terms colloid and emulsion are sometimes used interchangeably, emulsion tends to imply that both the dispersed and the continuous phase are liquid. In an emulsion, one liquid is dispersed in the other (the continuous phase).
Enver Hoxha: Enver Halil Hoxha (16 October 1908 - 11 April 1985) was the Communist leader of Albania from the end of World War II until his death in 1985, as the First Secretary of the Party of Labour of Albania. He served as Prime Minister of Albania from 1944 to 1954, Minister of Defense (1944-1953) and Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1946 to 1953. Hoxha's leadership was characterized by isolation from the mid 1970s onwards and his proclaimed firm adherence to anti-revisionist Marxist-Leninism.
Elbridge Gerry: Elbridge Thomas Gerry (July 17, 1744 - November 23, 1814) was an American statesman and diplomat. As a Democratic-Republican he was selected as the fifth Vice President of the United States, serving under James Madison, from March 4, 1813, until his death a year and a half later. He was the first Vice President not to run for President of the United States, although this was due to his death rather than being a political decision.
Louis Mountbatten 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma: Admiral of the Fleet Louis Francis Albert Victor Nicholas George Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma KG, GCB, OM, GCSI, GCIE, GCVO, DSO, PC, FRS, n Prince Louis of Battenberg (25 June 1900 - 27 August 1979) was a British admiral and statesman of German descent, and an uncle of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
Encryption: In cryptography, encryption is the process of transforming information (referred to as plaintext) using an algorithm to make it unreadable to anyone except those possessing special knowledge, usually referred to as a key. The result of the process is encrypted information (in cryptography, referred to as ciphertext). In many contexts, the word encryption also implicitly refers to the reverse process, decryption (e.g.
EPR paradox: In quantum mechanics, the EPR paradox (or Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen paradox) is a thought experiment which challenged long-held ideas about the relation between the observed values of physical quantities and the values that can be accounted for by a physical theory. Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen introduced the thought experiment in a 1935 paper to argue that quantum mechanics is not a complete physical theory. According to its authors the EPR experiment yields a dichotomy.
Encapsulation: Encapsulation may refer to:
Esbat: An esbat is a coven meeting other than one of the Sabbats within Wicca and other Wiccan-influenced forms of Neopaganism. Janet and Stewart Farrar describe esbats as an opportunity for a "love feast, healing work, psychic training and all. " Many confuse the esbat with the ritual observance of the full moon.
Evaporation: Evaporation is a type of vaporization of a liquid, that occurs only on the surface of a liquid. The other type of vaporization is boiling, that instead occurs on the entire mass of the liquid. Evaporation is also part of the water cycle. Evaporation is a type of phase transition; it is the process by which molecules in a liquid state spontaneously become gaseous.
Equal temperament: Equal temperament is a musical temperament, or a system of tuning in which every pair of adjacent notes has an identical frequency ratio. In equal temperament tunings, an interval - usually the octave - is divided into a series of equal steps (equal frequency ratios between successive notes).
Ethnologue: Ethnologue: Languages of the World is a web and print publication of SIL International (formerly known as the Summer Institute of Linguistics), a Christian linguistic service organization, which studies lesser-known languages, primarily to provide the speakers with Bibles in their native language.
Edward Gibbon: Edward Gibbon (April 27, 1737 - January 16, 1794) was an English historian and Member of Parliament. His most important work, The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, was published in six volumes between 1776 and 1788. The Decline and Fall is known principally for the quality and irony of its prose, its use of primary sources, and its open denigration of organised religion, though the extent of this is disputed by some critics.
East Pakistan: East Pakistan was a province of Pakistan between 1947 and 1971. East Pakistan was created from Bengal Province based on a plebiscite in what was then British India in 1947. Eastern Bengal chose to join the Dominion of Pakistan and became a province of Pakistan by the name East Bengal. East Bengal, also comprised East Pakistan in 1956 and later became the independent country of Bangladesh after the bloody Bangladesh Liberation War in 1971, which took place after General Elections of 1970.
E. O. Wilson: Edward Osborne Wilson (born June 10, 1929) is an American biologist, researcher, theorist, naturalist and author. His biological specialty is myrmecology, a branch of entomology. Wilson is a two-time winner of the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction. He is known for his career as a scientist, his advocacy for environmentalism, and his secular-humanist and deist ideas pertaining to religious and ethical matters.
Edwin Howard Armstrong: Edwin Howard Armstrong (December 18, 1890 - January 31, 1954) was an American electrical engineer and inventor. Armstrong was the inventor of frequency modulation (FM) radio. Edwin Howard Armstrong was born in New York City, New York, in 1890. He studied at Columbia University and later became a professor there.
EverQuest: EverQuest, often shortened to EQ, is a 3D fantasy-themed massively multiplayer online role-playing game that was released on the 16th of March, 1999. The original design is credited to Brad McQuaid, Steve Clover, and Bill Trost. It was developed by Sony's 989 Studios and its early-1999 spin-off Verant Interactive. It was published by Sony Online Entertainment (SOE). Since its acquisition of Verant in late 1999, SOE develops, runs and distributes EverQuest.
Evliya elebi: Evliya lebi ( ) was a Turkish traveler who journeyed throughout the territories of the Ottoman Empire and the neighbouring lands over a period of forty years.
Human evolution: Human evolution, or anthropogenesis, is the origin and evolution of Homo sapiens as a distinct species from other hominids, great apes and placental mammals. The study of human evolution encompasses many scientific disciplines, including physical anthropology, primatology, archaeology, linguistics and genetics. The term "human" in the context of human evolution refers to the genus Homo, but studies of human evolution usually include other hominids, such as the Australopithecines.
EFTPOS: EFTPOS is the general term used for debit card based systems used for processing transactions through terminals on points of sale. In Australia and New Zealand it is also the brand name of the specific system used for such payments in those countries. The Australian and New Zealand systems are country specific and do not interconnect.
Educational psychology: Educational psychology is the study of how humans learn in educational settings, the effectiveness of educational interventions, the psychology of teaching, and the social psychology of schools as organizations. Educational psychology is concerned with how students learn and develop, often focusing on subgroups such as gifted children and those subject to specific disabilities.
Epistle to the Laodiceans: An Epistle to the Laodiceans, purportedly written by Paul of Tarsus to the Laodicean Church, is, according to some, mentioned in the canonical Epistle to the Colossians. Several texts bearing this title have been known to have existed, but none are widely believed to have been written by Paul.
Extermination camp: Extermination camps were built during World War II to systematically kill millions of primarily Jewish victims. Non-Jews were also killed in these camps, including many gentile Poles and Soviet prisoners of war. This genocide of the Jewish people was the Third Reich's "Final solution to the Jewish question". The Nazi attempts at Jewish genocide are collectively known as The Holocaust.
Enterprise: Enterprise (occasionally used with the archaic spelling Enterprize) may refer to:
Excommunication: Excommunication is a religious censure used to deprive or suspend membership in a religious community. The word literally means putting [someone] out of communion. In some religions, excommunication includes spiritual condemnation of the member or group. Censures and sanctions sometimes follow excommunication; these include banishment, shunning, and shaming, depending on the religion, the offense that caused excommunication, or the rules or norms of the religious community.
Electrochemical cell: An electrochemical cell is a device capable of either deriving electrical energy from chemical reactions, or facilitating chemical reactions through the introduction of electrical energy. A common example of an electrochemical cell is a standard 1.5-volt "battery". (Actually a single "Galvanic cell"; a battery properly consists of multiple cells.)
Ecdysis: Ecdysis is the moulting of the cuticula in arthropods and related groups. Since the cuticula of these animals is also the skeletal support of the body and is inelastic, it is shed during growth and a new, larger covering is formed. The old, empty exoskeleton is called an exuvia (or "exuvium"). After moulting, an arthropod is described as teneral; it is "fresh", pale and soft-bodied.
Ebor New South Wales: Ebor is a village on Waterfall Way on the Northern Tablelands, New South Wales, Australia. It is situated about 74 km (46 miles) east of Armidale and about one third of the way between Armidale and the New South Wales coast. At the 2006 census, Ebor and the surrounding area had a population of 160. There is a church, post office and general store, a hotel/motel and a primary school.
Pre-Islamic period of Afghanistan: Archaeological exploration of the Pre-Islamic period of Afghanistan began in Afghanistan in earnest after World War II and proceeded until the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan disrupted it in December 1979. Louis Dupree, the University of Pennsylvania, the Smithsonian Institution and others suggest that humans were living in Afghanistan at least 50,000 years ago, and that farming communities of the region were among the earliest in the world.
Ancient Egyptian religion: Part of a series on Ancient Egyptian religion File:Eye of Horus bw.
Gravitational redshift: This effect is called gravitational redshift and other spectral lines found in the light will also be shifted towards the longer wavelength, or "red," end of the spectrum. This shift can be observed along the entire electromagnetic spectrum. Light that has passed "downhill" into a region of stronger gravity shows a corresponding increase in energy, and is said to be gravitationally blueshifted.
Endothermic: In thermodynamics, the word Endothermic "within-heating" describes a process or reaction that absorbs energy in the form of heat. Its etymology stems from the Greek prefix endo-, meaning inside and the Greek suffix -thermic, meaning to heat. The opposite of an endothermic process is an exothermic process, one that releases energy in the form of heat. The term endothermic was coined by Marcellin Berthelot. The concept is frequently applied in physical sciences to e.g.
Extreme Programming: Extreme Programming (XP) is a software development methodology which is intended to improve software quality and responsiveness to changing customer requirements. As a type of agile software development, The methodology takes its name from the idea that the beneficial elements of traditional software engineering practices are taken to "extreme" levels, on the theory that if some is good, more is better. It is unrelated to "cowboy coding", which is more free-form and unplanned.
Edmund I of England: Edmund I (922 - 26 May 946), called the Elder, the Deed-doer, the Just, or the Magnificent, was King of England from 939 until his death. He was a son of Edward the Elder and half-brother of Athelstan. Athelstan died on 27 October 939, and Edmund succeeded him as king.
Easter Rising: The Easter Rising, was an insurrection staged in Ireland during Easter Week, 1916. The Rising was mounted by Irish republicans with the aims of ending British rule in Ireland and establishing the Irish Republic. It was the most significant uprising in Ireland since the rebellion of 1798. Organised by the Military Council of the Irish Republican Brotherhood, the Rising lasted from Easter Monday 24 April to 30 April 1916.
Earle Page: Sir Earle Christmas Grafton Page, GCMG, CH (8 August 1880 - 20 December 1961), Australian politician, was the 11th Prime Minister of Australia, and is to date the second-longest serving federal parliamentarian in Australian history with 41 years, 361 days in Parliament.
Amiga Enhanced Chip Set: Enhanced Chip Set (ECS) is the name used for the enhanced version of the Amiga computer's original chipset. ECS was introduced in 1990 debuting in the Amiga 3000. Amigas produced from 1990 onwards featured a mix of OCS and ECS chips, or even a full Enhanced Chipset. In 1991 ECS was officially introduced to the low end Amigas with the introduction of the Amiga 500+. The last Amiga to use ECS was the Amiga 600.
Ephrem the Syrian: Ephrem the Syrian was a Assyrian deacon and a prolific Syriac-language hymnographer and theologian of the 4th century. He is venerated by Christians throughout the world, and especially among Assyrian Christians, as a saint. Ephrem wrote a wide variety of hymns, poems, and sermons in verse, as well as prose biblical exegesis. These were works of practical theology for the edification of the church in troubled times.
European Space Operations Centre: The European Space Operations Centre (ESOC) is responsible for controlling ESA satellites and space probes. The centre is located in Darmstadt, Germany. It is Mission Control for most of the space projects of the ESA. ESOC also houses the Ground Facilities Control Centre (GFCC) that is responsible for remote operation of the ESTRACK network of Ground Stations and antennas.
Embouchure: The embouchure is the use of facial muscles and the shaping of the lips to the mouthpiece of a wind or brass instrument. The word is of French origin and is related to the root bouche (fr. ), 'mouth'. The proper embouchure allows the instrumentalist to play the instrument at its full range with a full, clear tone and without strain or damage to one's muscles.
European Space Agency: The European Space Agency (ESA), established in 1975, is an intergovernmental organisation dedicated to the exploration of space, currently with 18 member states. Headquartered in Paris, ESA has a staff of more than 2,000 with an annual budget of about 3.6 billion in 2009.
Evangelicalism: Evangelicalism is a Protestant Christian theological stream which began in Great Britain in the 1730s. Most adherents consider its key characteristics to be: A belief in the need for personal conversion Some expression of the gospel in "effort" A high regard for biblical authority An emphasis on the death and resurrection of Jesus.
Euphonium: The euphonium is a conical-bore, tenor-voiced brass instrument. It derives its name from the Greek word euphonos, meaning "well-sounding" or "sweet-voiced" (eu means "well" or "good" and phonos means "of sound", so "of good sound"). The euphonium is a valved instrument; nearly all current models are piston valved, though rotary valved models do exist.
The Elephant 6 Recording Company: The Elephant 6 Recording Company (or simply Elephant 6) is a collective of American musicians who spawned some of the most notable independent bands of the 1990s, including The Apples in Stereo, The Olivia Tremor Control, Neutral Milk Hotel, Elf Power, and Of Montreal.
Entire function: In complex analysis, an entire function, also called an integral function, is a complex-valued function that is holomorphic over the whole complex plane. Typical examples of entire functions are the polynomials and the exponential function, and any sums, products and compositions of these, including the error function and the trigonometric functions sine and cosine and their hyperbolic counterparts the hyperbolic sine and hyperbolic cosine functions.
Essay: An essay is usually a short piece of writing which is quite often written from an author's personal point of view. Essays can consist of a number of elements, including: literary criticism, political manifestos, learned arguments, observations of daily life, recollections, and reflections of the author. The definition of an essay is vague, overlapping with those of an article and a short story. Almost all modern essays are written in prose, but works in verse have been dubbed essays (e.g.
Error detection and correction: In information theory and coding theory with applications in computer science and telecommunication, error detection and correction or error control are techniques that enable reliable delivery of digital data over unreliable communication channels. Many communication channels are subject to channel noise, and thus errors may be introduced during transmission from the source to a receiver.
Euclidean domain: In mathematics, more specifically in abstract algebra and ring theory, a Euclidean domain is a ring that can be endowed with a certain structure - namely a Euclidean function, to be described in detail below - which allows a suitable generalization of the Euclidean algorithm.
European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts: The European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF) is an international organisation based at Reading, England that was founded in 1975.
Electrothermal-chemical technology: Electrothermal-chemical (ETC) technology is an attempt to increase accuracy and muzzle energy of future tank, artillery, and close-in weapon system guns by improving the predictability and rate of expansion of propellants inside the barrel.
E-3 Sentry: The Boeing E-3 Sentry is an American military airborne warning and control system (AWACS) aircraft based on the Boeing 707 that provides all-weather surveillance, command, control and communications, to the United States, United Kingdom, France, Saudi Arabia, and NATO air defense forces. It is distinguished by the disc-shaped radome above the fuselage. Production ended in 1992 after 68 had been built.
Euclidean algorithm: In mathematics, the Euclidean algorithm (also called Euclid's algorithm) is an efficient method for computing the greatest common divisor (GCD), also known as the greatest common factor (GCF) or highest common factor (HCF). It is named after the Greek mathematician Euclid, who described it in Books VII and X of his Elements. The GCD of two numbers is the largest number that divides both of them without leaving a remainder.
European Broadcasting Union: The European Broadcasting Union is a confederation of 75 broadcasting organisations from 56 countries, and 43 associate broadcasters from a further 25. It is unrelated to the European Union. Members are radio and television companies, most of which are government-owned public service broadcasters or privately owned stations with public missions. Full active Members are based in countries from Algeria to the Vatican State, including almost all European countries.
E-8 Joint STARS: The E-8 Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS) is a United States Air Force battle management and command and control aircraft that tracks ground vehicles and some aircraft, collects imagery, and relays tactical pictures to ground and air theater commanders.
Ellen van Langen: Ellen Gezina Maria van Langen is a former Dutch middle distance runner. Van Langen has a degree in economics at the University of Amsterdam. Before she started running, she played football. At the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, she won the Olympic title in the 800 m in a time of 1:55.54, a time which remained her personal best. After her major achievement, she was plagued by various injuries. Her best result after 1992 was a 6th place at the 1995 World Championships.
Econometrics: Econometrics is concerned with the tasks of developing and applying quantitative or statistical methods to the study and elucidation of economic principles. Econometrics combines economic theory with statistics to analyze and test economic relationships. Theoretical econometrics considers questions about the statistical properties of estimators and tests, while applied econometrics is concerned with the application of econometric methods to assess economic theories.
Eric Cheney: Eric Cheney (January 5, 1924 - December 30, 2001) was an independent British motorcycle designer and manufacturer. After World War II, Cheney joined the motorcycle dealers Archers of Aldershot as a mechanic . Cheney began racing motocross and became one Britain's best riders, along with his travelling companion Les Archer, who went on to become European champion . Following an accident he moved into bike preparation and design. He designed primarily motorcycle chassis and suspension systems.
Emacs Lisp: Emacs Lisp is a dialect of the Lisp programming language used by the GNU Emacs and XEmacs text editors (which this article will refer to collectively as "Emacs"). It is used for implementing most of the editing functionality built into Emacs, the remainder being written in C (as is the Lisp interpreter itself). Users of Emacs commonly write Emacs Lisp code to customize and extend Emacs.
Edward Bulwer-Lytton 1st Baron Lytton: Edward George Earle Lytton Bulwer-Lytton, 1st Baron Lytton PC (25 May 1803 - 18 January 1873), was an English politician, poet, playwright, and prolific novelist. He was immensely popular with the reading public and wrote a stream of bestselling novels which earned him a considerable fortune. But, like many authors of the period, his style now seems florid and embellished to modern tastes.
History of Esperanto: The constructed international auxiliary language Esperanto was developed in the 1870s and 80s by L. L. Zamenhof, and first published in 1887. The number of speakers has grown gradually over time, although it has not had much support from governments and international bodies, and has sometimes been outlawed or otherwise suppressed.
Esperanto culture: The language Esperanto is often used to access an international culture, including a large body of original as well as translated literature. There are over 25,000 Esperanto books (originals and translations) as well as over a hundred regularly distributed Esperanto magazines. Many Esperanto speakers use the language for free travel throughout the world using the Pasporta Servo.
Esperanto grammar: Esperanto is a constructed auxiliary language. A highly regular grammar makes Esperanto much easier to learn than most other languages of the world, though particular features may be more or less advantageous or difficult depending on the language background of the speaker. Parts of speech are immediately obvious, for example: e suffix -o indicates a noun, -a an adjective, -as a present-tense verb, and so on for other grammatical functions.
Emotion: Emotion is associated with mood, temperament, personality, and disposition. The English word 'emotion' is derived from the French word ouvoir. This is based on the Latin emovere, where e- (variant of ex-) means 'out' and movere means 'move'. The related term "motivation" is also derived from movere. No definitive taxonomy of emotions exists, though numerous taxonomies have been proposed.
Epictetus: Epictetus was a Greek Stoic philosopher. He was probably born a slave at Hierapolis, Phrygia, and lived in Rome until his exile to Nicopolis in northwestern Greece, where he lived most of his life and died. His teachings were noted down and published by his pupil Arrian in his Discourses. Philosophy, he taught, is a way of life and not just a theoretical discipline.
Eve Arden: Eve Arden (April 30, 1908 - November 12, 1990) was an American actress. Her almost 60-year career crossed most media frontiers with supporting and leading roles, but she is perhaps best remembered for playing the sardonic but engaging high school teacher in the classic Our Miss Brooks, and as the Rydell High School principal in the films Grease and Grease 2.
Elementary function: In mathematics, an elementary function is a function built from a finite number of exponentials, logarithms, constants, one variable, and nth roots through composition and combinations using the four elementary operations (+ - ). By allowing these functions (and constants) to be complex numbers, trigonometric functions and their inverses become included in the elementary functions.
Emperor Kimmei: Emperor Kimmei ( Kinmei-tenn) (509-571 CE) was the 29th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign is said to have spanned the years from 539 through 571. This reign is the first for which contemporary historiography are able to assign verifiable dates. His contemporary title would not have been tenn, as most historians believe this title was not introduced until the reigns of Emperor Tenmu and Empress Jit.
Emperor Bidatsu: Emperor Bidatsu ( Bidatsu-tenn) (538 - September 14, 585) was the 30th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 572 through 585. He was called Nunakura no Futotamashiki () in the Nihonshoki.
Edward Lear: Edward Lear (12 May 1812 - 29 January 1888) was an English artist, illustrator, author, and poet, renowned today primarily for his literary nonsense, in poetry and prose, and especially his limericks, a form that he popularised.
Enchiridion of Epictetus: The Enchiridion, or Handbook of Epictetus,, often shortened to simply "The Handbook", is a short manual of Stoic ethical advice compiled by Arrian, who had been a pupil of Epictetus at the beginning of the 2nd century. Although the content is derived from the Discourses of Epictetus, it is not a summary of the Discourses, but rather it is compilation of practical precepts. The Handbook is a guide to daily life. Unlike some of his forefathers in Greek philosophy (i.e.
Emperor Sushun: Emperor Sushun (, Sushun-tenn, was the 32nd emperor of Japan according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 587 through 592.
Empress Suiko: Empress Suiko (, Suiko-tenn was the 33rd tenno of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession, and the first of eight women to ascend the Chrysanthemum Throne. Her reign spanned the years from 593 until her death in 628.
Emperor Y mei: Emperor Ymei ( Ymei-tenn) (died 587) was the 31st emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. He ruled from 585 until his death in 587. He was called Tachibana no Toyohi no Mikoto () in the Nihonshoki. He was also referred to as Prince e (, e no Miko, literally crown prince) and Prince Ikebe after the palace in which he lived. He acceded to the throne after the death of his half brother, Emperor Bidatsu.
Empress K gyoku: Empress Kgyoku ( Kgyoku-tenn), also Empress Saimei ( Saimei-tenn) (594-August 24, 661) was the 35th and 37th sovereign empress of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. She was the second woman to ascend the Chrysanthemum Throne.. From February 18, 642 she ruled as Kgyoku, but abdicated after the assassination of Soga no Iruka and gave up the throne to her brother Emperor Ktoku on July 12, 645.
Emperor K toku: Emperor Ktoku (596 - November 24, 654) was the 36th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. The years of his reign lasted from 645 through 654.
Emperor Tenji: Emperor Tenji ( Tenji-tenn), also known as Emperor Tenchi (Tenchi-tenn) was the 38th Emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. The years of Emperor Tenji's reign spanned 661 through 672.
Emperor Temmu: Emperor Temmu was the 40th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. He ruled from 672 until his death in 686.
Empress Jit: Empress Jit (645 - December 22, 702) was the 41st imperial ruler of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. She was the fourth woman to ascend the Chrysanthemum Throne. Her reign spanned the years from 686 through 697.
Emperor Mommu: Emperor Mommu ( Monmu-tenn) (683-707) was the 42nd imperial ruler of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 697 through 707.
Empress Gensh: Empress Gensh ( Gensh-tenn) (680 - May 22, 748) was the 44th imperial ruler of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. She was the sixth woman to ascend the Chrysanthemum Throne. Her reign spanned the years from 715 through 724.
Emperor K bun: Emperor Kbun, also known as Prince tomo (, tomo no ji) (648 - August 21, 672) was the 39th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign lasted only a few months in 671-672, Control of the throne was wrested by Emperor Tenchi's brother, Prince ama, during the Jinshin War, after which Emperor Kbun committed seppuku.
Emperor Junnin: Emperor Junnin ( Junnin-tenn) (733 - November 10, 765) was the 47th imperial ruler of Japan according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 758 to 764.
Emperor Saga: Emperor Saga (, Saga-tenn) (786-842) was the 52nd emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 809 through 823.
Empress K ken: Empress Shtoku ( Shtoku-tenn) (718 - August 28, 770) was both the 46th and the 48th imperial ruler of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. The period in which she was the reigning sovereign stretched from 749 through the year of her death in 770. Shtoku initially ruled as Empress Kken ( Kken-tenn) from 749 to 758. She abdicated in favor of her second cousin, Emperor Junnin; but six years later she took the crown from him and reascended the throne.
Emperor Junna: Emperor Junna ( Junna-tenn) (786-840) was the 53rd emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. He was a son of Emperor Kammu. He reigned from 823 to 833.
Emperor Heizei: Emperor Heizei ( Heizei-tenn or Heij-tenn) (774-824) was the 51st emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 806 through 809.
K my: Komyo can refer to: Emperor Kmy, the second Northern Emperor of Japan, or pretender. Empress Consort Kmy, the consort of Emperor Shmu. Kmy () is a phrase used in Japanese Jodo Shinshu Buddhism to refer to the Infinite Light of Amitabha Buddha.
Emperor Suk: Emperor Suk (was the third of Ashikaga Pretenders during the Period of the Northern and Southern Courts in Japan. According to pre-Meiji scholars, his reign spanned the years from 1348 through 1351.
Emperor Go-K gon: Emperor Go-Kgon ( Go-Kgon-tenn) (March 23, 1338 - March 12, 1374) was the 4th of the Ashikaga Pretenders during the Period of the Northern and Southern Courts. According to pre-Meiji scholars, his reign spanned the years from 1352 through 1371. This Nanboku-ch "sovereign" was named after his father Emperor Kogon and go- (), translates literally as "later;" and thus, he may be called the "Later Emperor Kgon".
Emperor Suizei: Emperor Suizei; also known as Kamu-nuna-kaha-mimi no mikoto; was the 2nd emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.
Emperor Annei: Emperor Annei; also known as shikitsuhikotamatemi no Mikoto; was the 3rd emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.
Emperor Go-En'y: Emperor Go-En'y (January 11, 1359 - June 6, 1393) was the 5th of the Ashikaga Pretenders during the period of two courts. According to pre-Meiji scholars, his reign spanned the years from 1371 through 1382. This Nanboku-ch "sovereign" was named after the 10th century Emperor En'y and go- (), translates literally as "later;" and thus, he may be called the "Later Emperor En'y".
Emperor K sh: Emperor Ksh; also known as Mimatsuhikokaeshine no Mikoto; is the 5th emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.
Emperor K rei: Emperor Krei; also known as Ooyamatonekohikofutoni no Mikoto; was the 7th emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. Emperor Kaika is considered by most historians to be a legendary figure, and the name Kaika Tenn was assigned to him posthumously by later generations.
Emperor K gen: Emperor Kgen, also known as Ooyamatonekohikokunikuru no Mikoto, was the 8th emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.
Emperor Kaika: Emperor Kaika; also known as Wakayamatonekohikooobi no Mikoto; is the 9th emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. Emperor Kaika is considered by most historians to be a legendary figure, and the name Kaika Tenn was assigned to him posthumously by later generations.
Emperor Suinin: Emperor Suinin; also known as Ikumeiribikoisachi no Mikoto; was the 11th Emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. Emperor Suinin is considered by most historians to be a legendary figure, and the name Suinin Tenn was assigned to him posthumously by later generations.
Emperor Sujin: Emperor Sujin; also known as Mimakiiribikoinie no Sumeramikoto or Hatsukunishirasu Sumeramikoto; was the 10th emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. Emperor Sujin is considered by most historians to be a legendary figure; and the name Sujin Tenn was assigned to him posthumously by later generations.
Emperor K an: Emperor Kan; also known as Yamatotarashihikokunioshihito no Mikoto; was the 6th emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign.
Emperor Keik: Emperor Keik; also known as Ootarashihikooshirowake no Sumeramikoto; was the 12th emperor of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. Emperor Keik is considered by most historians to be a legendary figure, and the name Keik Tenn was assigned to him posthumously by later generations.
Emperor Seimu: Emperor Seimu; also known as Wakatarashihiko no Sumeramikoto; was the 13th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Emperor Seimu is considered by most historians to be a legendary figure, and the name Seimu Tenn was assigned to him posthumously by later generations.
Emperor Nintoku: Emperor Nintoku was the 16th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Nintoku is considered to have ruled the country during the late-fourth century and early-fifth century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study.
Emperor jin: Emperor jin, also known as Homutawake or Hondawake (), was the 15th imperial ruler of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. Emperor jin is considered by many to be a legendary figure, and the name jin Tenn was assigned to him posthumously by later generations.
Emperor Ch ai: Emperor Chai; also known as Tarashinakatsuhiko no Sumeramikoto; was a Japanese monarch, the 14th emperor (tenn) of Japan to appear on the traditional list of emperors. Emperor Chai is considered by most historians to be a legendary figure, and the name Chai Tenn was assigned to him posthumously by later generations. The Imperial Household Agency designates Oka misanzai kofun () in Fujiidera, Osaka as his tomb; it is known as Ega no nagano no nishi no misasagi ().
Emperor Rich: Emperor Rich was the 17th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Rich is considered to have ruled the country during the early-5th century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study. According to Nihonshoki and Kojiki, he was the first son of Emperor Nintoku. He succumbed to disease in his sixth year of reign.
Emperor Hanzei: Emperor Hanzei was the 18th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Hanzei is considered to have ruled the country during the early-5th century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study. Hanzei was the brother of Emperor Rich; and this succession effectively by-passed Rich's two sons. No other details have survived.
Emperor Ingy: Emperor Ingy was the 19th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Ingy is considered to have ruled the country during the mid-fifth century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study.
Emperor Seinei: Emperor Seinei was the 22nd emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign, but Seinei is thought to have ruled the country during the late 5th century. There is an overall paucity of information about him. According to Kojiki and Nihonshoki, he was a son of Emperor Yryaku. His name in birth was Shiraka. It is said that the color of his hair was white since birth.
Emperor Y ryaku: Emperor Yryaku (c. 418 - Seventh Day of the Eight Month of 479) was the 21st emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Yryaku is considered to have ruled the country during the mid-5th century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study.
Emperor Kenz: Kenz, also spelled Ghen so tenn, was the 23rd emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Kenz is considered to have ruled the country during the late-5th century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study.
Emperor Ank: Emperor Ank was the 20th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Ank is considered to have ruled the country during the mid-5th century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study. According to Kojiki and Nihonshoki Ank was the second son of Emperor Ingy.
Emperor Ninken: Disambiguation: Ninken redirects here. For the fictional summoned dogs in Naruto see Ninken (Naruto). Emperor Ninken, or rather Ninken okimi (-c.489) was the 24th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Ninken is considered to have ruled the country during the late-5th century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study.
Emperor Keitai: Keitai ( Keitai-tenn), also known as Keitai okimi, was the 26th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Keitai is considered to have ruled the country during the early-6th century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study.
Emperor Buretsu: Emperor Buretsu ( Buretsu Tenn) (c. 489-507) was the 25th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Buretsu is considered to have ruled the country during the late-fifth century and early-sixth century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study.
Emperor Ankan: Emperor Ankan ( Ankan Tenn) was the 27th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Keitai is considered to have ruled the country during the early-6th century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study. The Takayatsukiyama kofun in Habikino, Osaka is designated as Emperor Ankan's mausoleum.
Elyssa Davalos: Elyssa Davalos (born May 30, 1959) is an American television and movie actress. She is the daughter of actor Richard Davalos and the mother of actress Alexa Davalos, from her marriage to photographer Jeff Dunas.
Emperor Senka: Emperor Senka ( Senka-tenn) was the 28th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. No firm dates can be assigned to this emperor's life or reign. Keitai is considered to have ruled the country during the early-6th century, but there is a paucity of information about him. There is insufficient material available for further verification and study.
Eastmoreland Portland Oregon: Eastmoreland is an old and tree-filled neighborhood in inner southeast Portland, Oregon. The neighborhood is bounded on the north by SE Woodstock Street, and then Bybee, south to SE Crystal Springs Blvd. , east to SE 39th Ave. , and west to approximately SE 25th Ave. The Reed College campus is located in the northern part of the neighborhood. Public parks in Eastmoreland include Crystal Springs Rhododendron Garden (1923), Eastmoreland Golf Course (1916), and Berkeley Park (1941).
Emil Theodor Kocher: Emil Theodor Kocher (August 25, 1841 - July 27, 1917) was a Swiss physician, medical researcher, and Nobel laureate for his work in the physiology, pathology and surgery of the thyroid. Kocher was born in Berne, Switzerland. He studied in Zrich, Berlin, London and Vienna, and obtained his doctorate in Berne in 1865. In 1872, he succeeded Georg Albert Lcke as Ordinary Professor of Surgery and Director of the University Surgical Clinic at the Inselspital in Berne.
Enrico Bombieri: Enrico Bombieri (born 26 November 1940) is an Italian mathematician, born in Milan. He is now at the Institute for Advanced Study. He is known for work in number theory, algebraic geometry, and mathematical analysis. He was awarded a Fields Medal in 1974 and the Balzan Prize in 1980. In 2010 he received the King Faisal International Prize jointly with Terence Tao. The Bombieri-Vinogradov theorem is one of the major applications of the large sieve method.
Eduardo Blasco Ferrer: Eduardo Blasco Ferrer (born 1956) is a Spanish-Italian linguist, currently a professor at the University of Cagliari, Sardinia. He is best known as the author of several studies about the Sardinian language.
Eos: Eos (Greek , or "dawn") is, in Greek mythology, the Titanic goddess of the dawn, who rose from her home at the edge of Oceanus, the Ocean that surrounds the world, to herald her brother Helios, the sun. The Greek worship of the dawn as a goddess is believed to be inherited from Indo-European times. The name Eos is cognate to Latin Aurora, to Vedic Ushas.
Etna disambiguation: Mount Etna (or na) is an active volcano on the east coast of Sicily. Etna may also refer to:
Eight queens puzzle: The eight queens puzzle is the problem of placing eight chess queens on an 88 chessboard such that none of them are able to capture any other using the standard chess queen's moves. The queens must be placed in such a way that no two queens would be able to attack each other. Thus, a solution requires that no two queens share the same row, column, or diagonal.
Eli Wallach: Eli Herschel Wallach (born December 7, 1915) is an American film, television and stage actor, who gained fame in the late 1950s. For his performance in Baby Doll he won a BAFTA Award for Best Newcomer and a Golden Globe nomination. One of his most famous roles is that of Tuco in The Good, the Bad and the Ugly. Other roles include his portrayal of Don Altobello in The Godfather Part III and Arthur Abbott in The Holiday. Wallach has received BAFTA Awards, Tony Awards and Emmy Awards for his work.
Electric Light Orchestra: Electric Light Orchestra, commonly abbreviated ELO,were a symphonic rock group from Birmingham, United Kingdom, who released eleven studio albums between 1971 and 1986 and another album in 2001. ELOwere formed to accommodate Roy Wood and Jeff Lynne's desire to create modern rock and pop songs with classical overtones. After Wood's departure following the band's debut record, Lynne wrote and arranged all of the group's original compositions and produced every album.
Enki: Enki was a god in Sumerian mythology, later known as Ea in Akkadian and Babylonian mythology. He was originally patron god of the city of Eridu, but later the influence of his cult spread throughout Mesopotamia and to the Hittites and Hurrians. He was the deity of crafts (gaam); mischief; water, seawater, and lakewater (a, aba, ab), intelligence (gest, literally "ear") and creation . He was assimilated to the zenith in the Sun's path at the winter solstice. His sacred number name was "40".
Elba: Elba is an Mediterranean island in Tuscany, Italy, 20 kilometres (12 mi) from the coastal town of Piombino. The largest island of the Tuscan Archipelago, Elba is also part of the National Park of the Tuscan Archipelago and the third largest island in Italy after Sicily and Sardinia. It is located between the Tyrrhenian Sea and Ligurian Sea, about 50 kilometres (30 mi) east of the French island of Corsica.
Evil Dead II: Evil Dead II is a 1987 American cult comedy horror film. Standing as a sequel to 1981's The Evil Dead, the film was directed by Sam Raimi, written by Raimi and Scott Spiegel, produced by Rob Tapert and starred Bruce Campbell as Ash Williams. The film was followed by a sequel of its own in 1993 entitled Army of Darkness.
Edwin Hubble: Edwin Powell Hubble (November 20, 1889 - September 28, 1953) was an American astronomer. He profoundly changed our understanding of the universe by demonstrating the existence of other galaxies besides the Milky Way. He also discovered that the degree of redshift observed in light coming from a galaxy increased in proportion to the distance of that galaxy from the Milky Way. This became known as Hubble's law, and would help establish that the known universe is expanding.
Emperor Montoku: Emperor Montoku ( Montoku-tenn) (22 January 827- 27 August 858) was the 55th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. The years of his reign spanned the years from 850 through 858.
Emperor Ninmy: Emperor Ninmy (810 - March 21, 850) was the 54th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign lasted the years spanning 833 through 850.
Emperor Seiwa: Emperor Seiwa ( Seiwa-tenn) (Third month, 25th day, 850 - Twelfth month, 4th day, 880) was the 56th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 858 through 876.
Emperor Y zei: Emperor Yzei ( Yzei-tenn) (869-949) was the 57th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 876 through 884.
Emperor K k: Emperor Kk was the 58th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. He reigned from 884 to 887.
Emperor Uda: Emperor Uda (, Uda-tenn, May 5 867 - July 19 931) was the 59th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 887 through 897.
Daigo: Daigo is a Japanese given name and place name.
Espionage: Espionage or spying involves an individual obtaining information that is considered secret or confidential without the permission of the holder of the information. Espionage is inherently clandestine, as the legitimate holder of the information may change plans or take other countermeasures once it is known that the information is in unauthorized hands.
Earless seal: The true seals or earless seals are one of the three main groups of mammals within the seal suborder, Pinnipedia. All true seals are members of the family Phocidae. They are sometimes called crawling seals to distinguish them from the fur seals and sea lions of the family Otariidae. Seals live in the oceans of both hemispheres and are mostly confined to polar, sub-polar, and temperate climates, with the exception of the more tropical monk seals.
Suzaku: Suzaku may refer to: Suzaku, the Japanese name for the Chinese Vermilion Bird (Zh Qu), bird guardian of the South Emperor Suzaku, emperor of Japan SUZAK Inc. , also known as Suzaku, a video game developer Suzaku Avenue, one of the ancient main streets eg.
Reizei: Reizei can refer to: Emperor Reizei, emperor of Japan Reizei family, a branch of the Fujiwara family
Emperor Kazan: Emperor Kazan ( Kazan-tenn) (October 26, 968-February 8, 1008) was the 65th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. He ruled from 984 to 986.
Exile video game series: The Exile series of role-playing games were created by Jeff Vogel of Spiderweb Software. They are released as shareware titles for Apple Macintosh and Microsoft Windows systems. Exile III was also ported to Linux by a third party. There were four games released in this series. * Exile: Escape from the Pit (released in January 1995) Exile II: Crystal Souls (released in November 1995) Exile III: Ruined World (released in January 1997) Blades of Exile (released in December 1997)
Ichijo: Ichij literally means first street in Japanese.
Sanjo: Sanjo can refer to:
Elvis Costello: Declan Patrick MacManus (born 25 August 1954), known by the stage name Elvis Costello, is an English singer-songwriter of Irish heritage. He came to prominence as an early participant in London's pub rock scene in the mid-1970s and later became associated with the New Wave musical genre. Steeped in word play, the vocabulary of Costello's lyrics is broader than that of most popular songs.
Extrasensory perception: Extrasensory perception (ESP) involves reception of information not gained through the recognized physical senses but sensed with the mind. The term was coined by German psychical researcher, Rudolf Tischner, and adopted by Duke University psychologist J. B. Rhine to denote psychic abilities such as telepathy and clairvoyance, and their trans-temporal operation as precognition or retrocognition.
Economy of scale: Economies of scale, in microeconomics, are the cost advantages that a business obtains due to expansion. They are factors that cause a producers average cost per unit to fall as scale is increased. Economies of scale is a long run concept and refers to reductions in unit cost as the size of a facility, or scale, increases. Diseconomies of scale are the opposite. Economies of scale may be utilized by any size firm expanding its scale of operation.
Elie Wiesel: Eliezer "Elie" Wiesel KBE (born September 30, 1928) is a writer, professor at Boston University, political activist, Nobel Laureate and Holocaust survivor. He is the author of 57 books, the best known of which is Night, a work based on his experiences as a prisoner in the Auschwitz and Buchenwald concentration camps.. His diverse range of other writings offer powerful and poetic contributions to literature, theology, and his own articulation of Jewish spirituality today.
Ed Wood: Edward Davis Wood, Jr. (October 10, 1924 - December 10, 1978), better known as Ed Wood, was an American screenwriter, director, producer, actor, author, and editor, who often performed many of these functions simultaneously.
EDIF: EDIF stands for Electronic Design Interchange Format, and has been predominantly used as a vendor neutral format in which to store Electronic netlists and schematics. It was one of the first attempts to establish a neutral data exchange format for the electronic design automation (EDA) industry. The goal was to establish a common format from which the proprietary formats of the EDA systems could be derived.
Epilepsy: Epilepsy (from the Ancient Greek "to seize") is a common chronic neurological disorder characterized by recurrent unprovoked seizures. These seizures are transient signs and/or symptoms of abnormal, excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain. About 50 million people worldwide have epilepsy, with almost 90% of these people being in developing countries.
Book of Enos: The Book of Enos is the fourth book of the Book of Mormon. According to the text it was written by Enos, a Nephite prophet. The short book consists of a single chapter and relates Enos's conversion after praying all day and all night, and his subsequent dialogue with the Lord. It also discusses the redemption of the Nephites and their enemies, the Lamanites.
Environmental skepticism: Environmental skepticism is an umbrella term that describes those that argue that particular claims put forward by environmentalists and environmental scientists are incorrect or exaggerated, along with those who are critical of environmentalism in general. The use of the term is contested.
El Ni o-Southern Oscillation: El Ni-Southern Oscillation, often called simply ENSO, is a climate pattern that occurs across the tropical Pacific Ocean on average every five years, but over a period which varies from three to seven years, and is therefore, widely and significantly, known as "quasi-periodic. " ENSO is best-known for its association with floods, droughts and other weather disturbances in many regions of the world, which vary with each event.
Flute: The flute is a musical instrument of the woodwind family. Unlike woodwind instruments with reeds, a flute is an aerophone or reedless wind instrument that produces its sound from the flow of air across an opening. According to the instrument classification of Hornbostel-Sachs, flutes are categorized as Edge-blown aerophones. A musician who plays the flute can be referred to as a flute player, a flautist, a flutist, or less commonly a fluter. Flutes are the earliest known musical instruments.
Flageolet disambiguation: Flageolet has several meanings: Flageolet (woodwind instrument) Flageolet bean Whistle register, also called flageolet register Flageolet tone, a tone of string instruments Flageolet (organ stop) Natural flageolet Artificial flageolet
Essential tremor: Essential tremor (ET) is a progressive neurological disorder whose most recognizable feature is a tremor of the arms that is apparent during voluntary movements such as eating and writing. This type of tremor is often referred to as "kinetic tremor. " The tremor may also occur in the head (neck), jaw and voice as well as other body regions, with the general pattern being that the tremor begins in the arms and then spreads to these other regions in selected patients.
Association football: Association football, more commonly known as football or soccer, is a team sport played between two teams of eleven players using a spherical ball. It is widely considered to be the most popular sport in the world. The game is played on a rectangular grass or artificial turf field, with a goal in the centre of each of the short ends. The object of the game is to score by driving the ball into the opposing goal.
First National: First National was an association of independent theater owners in the United States that expanded from exhibiting movies to distributing them, and eventually to producing them as a movie studio. It later merged with Warner Bros.
Francis Ford Coppola: Francis Ford Coppola (born April 7, 1939) is an Italian-American film director, producer and screenwriter. Away from show business, Coppola is also a vintner, magazine publisher and hotelier. He is a graduate of Hofstra University where he studied theatre. He earned an M.F.A. in film directing from the UCLA Film School. He is primarily known for directing the Godfather films, Dracula, The Conversation and Apocalypse Now.
Flagellate: Flagellates are organisms with one or more whip-like organelles called flagella. Some cells in animals may be flagellate, for instance the spermatozoa of most phyla. Higher plants and fungi do not produce flagellate cells, but the closely related green algae and chytrids do. Many protists take the form of single-celled flagellates. It describes a means of motion, and does not provide specific classification.
Flavor: Flavor or flavour is the sensory impression of a food or other substance, and is determined mainly by the chemical senses of taste and smell. The "trigeminal senses," which detect chemical irritants in the mouth and throat, may also occasionally determine flavor. The flavor of the food, as such, can be altered with natural or artificial flavorants, which affect these senses.
Frisian languages: The Frisian languages are a closely related group of Germanic languages, spoken by about 500,000 members of Frisian ethnic groups, who live on the southern fringes of the North Sea in Denmark, the Netherlands, and Germany. The Frisian languages are the most closely related living European languages to English, although Scots is sometimes considered a separate language rather than a dialect of English, which would make Frisian the second most closely related.
French language: French is a Romance language spoken as a first language by about 136 million people, worldwide. Around 190 million people speak French as a second language, and an additional 200 million speak it as an acquired foreign language. French speaking communities are present in 57 countries and territories. Most native speakers of the language live in France, where the language originated.
Finland: Finland, officially the Republic of Finland Finnish: Suomi; Swedish: Finland, is a Nordic country situated in the Fennoscandian region of Northern Europe. It is bordered by Sweden on the west, Norway on the north and Russia on the east, while Estonia lies to its south across the Gulf of Finland. The capital city is Helsinki. Around 5.4 million people reside in Finland, with the majority concentrated in the southern part of the country.
Factorial: In mathematics, the factorial of a positive integer n, denoted by n!, is the product of all positive integers less than or equal to n. For example, 0! is a special case that is explicitly defined to be 1. The factorial operation is encountered in many different areas of mathematics, notably in combinatorics, algebra and mathematical analysis. Its most basic occurrence is the fact that there are n! ways to arrange n distinct objects into a sequence (i.e. , permutations of a the set of objects).
Formula fiction: In popular culture, formula fiction is literature in which the storylines and plots have been reused to the extent that the narratives are predictable. It is similar to genre fiction, which identifies a number of specific settings that are frequently reused. The label of formula fiction is used in literary criticism as a mild pejorative to imply lack of originality. Formula fiction is similar to genre fiction.
Field mathematics: In abstract algebra, a field is an algebraic structure with notions of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, satisfying certain axioms. The most commonly used fields are the field of real numbers, the field of complex numbers, and the field of rational numbers, but there are also finite fields, fields of functions, various algebraic number fields, p-adic fields, and so forth.
Cinema of Germany: Cinema in Germany can be traced back to the very beginnings of the medium at the end of the 19th century. German cinema has made major technical and artistic contributions to film.
Fiddle: The term fiddle may refer to any bowed string musical instrument, usually the violin. It is also a colloquial term for the instrument used by players in all genres, including classical music. Fiddle playing, or fiddling, refers to various styles of music.
Frivolous litigation: Frivolous litigation is the practice of starting or carrying on law suits that have no chance of winning. There are both legal and colloquial definitions of the term. In popular usage, lay persons typically call a lawsuit "frivolous" if they personally find a claim to be absurd, regardless of its legal standing.
List of female tennis players: This is a list of female tennis players who satisfy one or more of the following criteria: In singles, she must have reached the WTA Top 200 world rankings on or after January 1, 2000, or the WTA Top 100 world rankings before January 1, 2000, and the ranking must be verifiable. In doubles, she must have won at least one WTA Tour event. In singles, she must have reached at least the quarterfinals of at least one Grand Slam tournament before the inception of the WTA world rankings system.
Flugelhorn: The flugelhorn is a brass instrument resembling a trumpet but with a wider, conical bore. Some consider it to be a member of the saxhorn family developed by Adolphe Sax (who also developed the saxophone); however, other historians assert that it derives from the keyed bugle designed by Michael Saurle (father), Munich 1832 (Royal Bavarian privilege for a "chromatic Flgelhorn" 1832), thus predating Adolphe Sax's innovative work.
Folk music: The term folk music originated in the 19th century as a term for musical folklore. It has been defined in several ways; as music transmitted by word of mouth, music of the lower classes, music with no known composer. It has been contrasted with commercial and classical styles. Since the middle of the 20th century the term has also been used to describe a kind of popular music that is based on traditional music.
Fallacies of definition: Fallacies of definition refer to the various ways in which definitions can fail to have merit. The term is used to suggest analogy with the logical fallacies. This is a typical sort of list found in texts used in college logic courses.
Fullerene: A fullerene is any molecule composed entirely of carbon, in the form of a hollow sphere, ellipsoid, or tube. Spherical fullerenes are also called buckyballs, and cylindrical ones are called carbon nanotubes or buckytubes. Fullerenes are similar in structure to graphite, which is composed of stacked graphene sheets of linked hexagonal rings; but they may also contain pentagonal (or sometimes heptagonal) rings.
Fredericton: Fredericton is the capital of the Canadian province of New Brunswick, by virtue of the provincial parliament which sits there. An important cultural, artistic, and educational centre for the province, Fredericton is home to two universities and cultural institutions such as the Beaverbrook Art Gallery, the York Sunbury Museum, and The Playhousea performing arts venue.
Free software: Free software, software libre or libre software is software that can be used, studied, and modified without restriction, and which can be copied and redistributed in modified or unmodified form either without restriction, or with minimal restrictions only to ensure that further recipients can also do these things and that manufacturers of consumer-facing hardware allow user modifications to their hardware. Free software is generally available without charge, but can have a fee.
Free: Free may refer to: Adjective associated with freedom Adjective describing something given or supplied without payment Gratis versus Libre, the distinction between the two meanings above Free may also refer to:
Free software movement: The free software movement (abbreviated FSM) is a social movement which aims to enable users to access and modify software free of cost. The alternative terms "software libre", "open source", and "FOSS" are associated with the free software movement. Although drawing on traditions and philosophies among members of the 1970s hacker culture, Richard Stallman is widely credited with launching the movement in 1983 by founding the GNU Project.
Food: Food is any substance, composed of carbohydrates, water, fats, proteins and water, that can be eaten or drunk by animals, including humans, for nutrition or pleasure. Items considered food may be sourced from plants, animals or other categories such as fungus. Although many human cultures sought food items through hunting and gathering, today most cultures use farming, ranching, and fishing, with hunting, foraging and other methods of a local nature included but playing a minor role.
Fixed 3D: In techniques for computer games, fixed 3D is a three-dimensional (3D) representation of the game world where foreground objects (i.e. game characters) are rendered in real time against a fixed background. The principal advantage of this technique is the ability to include greater detail within a scene than could otherwise be afforded within the limits of contemporary technology.
Fantasy sport: A fantasy sport (also known as rotisserie, roto, or owner simulation) is a game where participants act as owners to build a team that competes against other fantasy owners based on the statistics generated by the real individual players or teams of a professional sport. Probably the most common variant converts statistical performance into points that are compiled and totaled according to a roster selected by a manager that makes up a fantasy team.
Forward pass: In several forms of football a forward pass is when the ball is thrown in the direction that the offensive team is trying to move, towards the defensive team's goal line. Although forward passes had been tried as early as 1876, the first legal forward pass in American football took place in 1906, after a change in rules. Another change in rules occurred on January 18, 1951 which established that no center, tackle, or guard could receive a forward pass.
Transport in Fiji: Main article: Rail transport in Fiji. Total: 597 km; 597 km 0.610-m gauge (1995) Narrow gauge: Note: belongs to the government-owned Fiji Sugar Corporation The railway is not for passenger or public use.
Telecommunications in Fiji: Communications in Fiji. This article lists communications in Fiji.
Republic of Fiji Military Forces: The Republic of Fiji Military Forces (RFMF), with a total manpower of 3,500 active soldiers and 6,000 reservists, is one of the smallest militaries in the world. However, most of its surrounding island nations have no militaries at all, in comparison to its size and population has a relatively larger than needed one, even larger than that of Papua New Guinea's. The men in the active army are organized into six infantry and one engineer battalions, with approximately 6,000 reserves.
Foreign relations of Fiji: Fiji has experienced many coups recently, in 1987, 2000, and 2006. Fiji has been suspended various times from the Commonwealth of Nations, a grouping of mostly former British colonies. It was readmitted to the Commonwealth in December 2001, following the parliamentary election held to restore democracy in September that year, and is currently suspended again after the 2006 coup.
Goal line American football: The goal line is the chalked or painted line dividing the end zone from the field of play in Canadian football and American football.
Play from scrimmage: A play from scrimmage is the activity of the games of Canadian football and American football during which one team tries to advance the ball or to score, and the other team tries to stop them or take the ball away. Once a play is over, and before the next play starts, the football is considered dead. A game of American football (or Canadian Football) consists of many (about 120-150) such plays.
Tackle football move: Most forms of football have a move known as a tackle. The primary purposes of tackling is to disposses an opponent of the ball, to stop the player from gaining ground towards goal or to stop them from carrying out what they intend. The word is used in some contact variations of football to describe the act of physically holding or wrestling a player to the ground. In others, it simply describes one or more methods of contesting for possession of the ball.
Football player: Football player, may refer to: One who plays American football or Canadian football A footballer A soccer player
Friedrich Nietzsche: Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche (October 15, 1844 - August 25, 1900) was a 19th-century German philosopher and classical philologist. He wrote critical texts on religion, morality, contemporary culture, philosophy and science, using a distinctive German-language style and displaying a fondness for metaphor, irony and aphorism. Nietzsche's influence remains substantial within and beyond philosophy, notably in existentialism and postmodernism.
Fabales: Fabales is an order of flowering plants. It is included in the rosid group of the eudicots in the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group II classification system. In the APG II circumscription this order includes the families Fabaceae or legumes, Quillajaceae, Polygalaceae or milkworts, and Surianaceae. Under the Cronquist system and some other plant classification systems, the order Fabales contains only the family Fabaceae.
Frank Zappa: Frank Vincent Zappa (December 21, 1940 - December 4, 1993) was an American composer, electric guitarist, record producer, and film director. In a career spanning more than 30 years, Zappa wrote rock, jazz, electronic, orchestral, and musique concre works. He also directed feature-length films and music videos, and designed album covers. Zappa produced almost all of the more than 60 albums he released with the band Mothers of Invention and as a solo artist.
Fagales: The Fagales are an order of flowering plants, including some of the best known trees. The order name is derived from genus Fagus, Beeches. They belong among the rosid group of dicotyledons.
French: French usually refers to: something of, from, or related to France. French people, inhabitants of France or people having family origins in France French language, a Romance language originating in what is now northern France French culture French cuisine French kiss French catheter scale, a measurement of gauge
List of French people: French people of note include:
Five-card draw: Five-card draw is a poker variant and often the first variant learned by most players. It is common in home games although it is rare in casino and tournament play.
Flaming Internet: Flaming (also known as bashing) is hostile and insulting interaction between Internet users. Flaming usually occurs in the social context of a discussion board, Internet Relay Chat (IRC), Usenet, by e-mail or on Video-sharing websites.
Frank Lloyd Wright: Frank Lloyd Wright (born Frank Lincoln Wright, June 8, 1867 - April 9, 1959) was an American architect, interior designer, writer and educator, who designed more than 1,000 projects, which resulted in more than 500 completed works. Wright promoted organic architecture, was a leader of the Prairie School movement of architecture, and developed the concept of the Usonian home (exemplified by the Rosenbaum House).
Filk music: Filk is a musical culture, genre, and community tied to science fiction/fantasy fandom and a type of fan labor. The genre has been active since the early 1950s, and played primarily since the mid-1970s. The term antedates 1955.
History of the Falkland Islands: The history of the Falkland Islands goes back at least five hundred years, with active exploration and colonisation only taking place in the 18th century. Nonetheless, the islands have been a matter of controversy, as they have been claimed by the French, Spaniards, British and Argentines at various points.
Politics of the Falkland Islands: Politics of the Falkland Islands takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the Governor is the head of government with an elected legislative council. The islands, an archipelago in the southern Atlantic Ocean, are a self-governing British overseas territory.
Economy of the Falkland Islands: The economy of the Falkland Islands, previously heavily over-dependent on sheep farming, has become more diversified in the last decades and now also has income from tourism and commercial fishing as well as a service base for the fishing industry. The Falkland Islands have the highest standard of living in South America.
Flying disc: Flying discs (commonly called frisbees) are disc-shaped gliders, which are generally plastic and roughly 20 to 25 centimeters (8-10 inches) in diameter, with a lip. The shape of the disc, an airfoil in cross-section, allows it to fly by generating lift as it moves through the air while rotating. The name Frisbee is a registered trademark of the Wham-O toy company, but is often used uncapitalized generically to describe all flying discs.
Telecommunications in the Falkland Islands: Telephones - main lines in use: NA Telephones - mobile cellular: Cable & Wireless launched "Touch" a GSM 900 mobile service during December 2005. Roaming became partially available in April 2007 depending on providers. Telephone system: domestic: Telephone penetration by household is 100%.
Transport in the Falkland Islands: There are three primary methods of transport available in the Falkland Islands. As well as two airports, there are a number of airstrips used extensively for domestic flights. There is also a growing road network, along with limited sea transport.
Military of the Falkland Islands: The Falkland Islands are an overseas territory of the United Kingdom and, as such, rely on the UK for guarantee of their security. The other UK territories in the South Atlantic, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, fall under the protection of the British forces on the Falklands (also known as British Forces Falkland Islands or British Forces South Atlantic Islands), which includes commitments from the British Army, Royal Air Force and Royal Navy.
History of the Faroe Islands: The early details of Faroese history are rather nebulous. It is possible that Saint Brendan, an Irish monk sailed past the islands during his North Atlantic voyage in the 6th century. He saw an 'Island of Sheep' and a 'Paradise of Birds', which some say could be the Faroes with its dense bird population and sheep. In the late 600s to early 700s the islands were visited by monks from Ireland, possibly looking for converts or solitude.
Politics of the Faroe Islands: Politics of the Faroe Islands takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the Prime Minister of the Faroe Islands is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. The Faroe Islands are politically associated with the Kingdom of Denmark, but have been self-governing since 1948. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Lting.
Demographics of the Faroe Islands: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Faroe Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The vast majority of the population are ethnic Faroese, of Norse descent. Ethnic Faroese are, in genetic terms, among the most homogenous groups ever found.
Telecommunications in the Faroe Islands: Telephones - main lines in use: 22,000 (1995) Telephones - mobile cellular: 35,000 (2004) est.
Geography of the Faroe Islands: The Faroe Islands are an island group consisting of eighteen islands off the coast of Northern Europe, between the Norwegian Sea and the north Atlantic Ocean, about half-way between Iceland and Norway. Its coordinates are 62 7; / ;62 7; / 62; -7. It is 1,393 square kilometres in area, and includes no major lakes or rivers. There are 1,117 kilometres of coastline, and no land boundaries with any other country.
Geography of Finland: The geography of Finland differs from that of other Nordic countries. Bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, and Gulf of Finland, between Sweden and Russia, Finland is the northernmost country on the European continent. Although other countries have points extending north, virtually all of Finland is north of 60 degrees north latitude; nearly a quarter of the land area and fully one-third of the latitudinal extent of the country lie north of the Arctic Circle.
Politics of Finland: Politics of Finland takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic and of a multi-party system. The President of Finland is the head of state, leads the foreign policy, and is the Commander-in-Chief of the Defense Forces. The Prime Minister of Finland is the head of government; executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in the Parliament of Finland, and the government has limited rights to amend or extend legislation.
Telecommunications in Finland: Finland has excellent communications, and is considered one of the most advanced information societies in the world.
Demographics of Finland: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Finland, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Finland numbers some 5.3 million and has an average population density of 17 inhabitants per square kilometre. This makes it, after Norway and Iceland, the most sparsely populated country in Europe.
Economy of Finland: Finland has a highly industrialized, mixed economy with a per capita output equal to that of other western economies such as France, Germany, Sweden or the United Kingdom. The largest sector of the economy is services at 65.7 percent, followed by manufacturing and refining at 31.4 percent. Primary production is 2.9 percent. With respect to foreign trade, the key economic sector is manufacturing.
Transport in Finland: The transport system of Finland is well-developed. The extensive road system is utilized by most internal cargo and passenger traffic. As of 2005, the country's network of main roads has a total length of 13,258 km and all public roads 78,186 km, of which 50,616 km are paved. The motorway network totals 653 km. Road network expenditure of around 1 billion euro is paid with vehicle and fuel taxes that amount to around 1.5 billion euro and 1 billion euro.
Finnish Defence Forces: The Finnish Defence Forces are responsible for defence of Finland. It is a cadre army of 16,500, of which 8,700 are professional soldiers (officers), extended with conscripts and reservists such that the standard readiness strength is 34,700 people in uniform (27,300 Army, 3,000 Navy, and 4,400 Air Force). A universal male conscription is in place, under which all men above 18 years of age serve for 6, 9 or 12 months.
Fiji: Fiji /ii/, officially the Republic of the Fiji Islands, is an island nation in the South Pacific Ocean east of Vanuatu, west of Tonga and south of Tuvalu. The country comprises an archipelago of about 322 islands, of which 106 are permanently inhabited, and 522 islets. The two major islands, Viti Levu and Vanua Levu, account for 87% of the population.
Foreign relations of Finland: The foreign relations of Finland are in the responsibility of President of Finland, who leads foreign policy in cooperation with the government. Implicitly the government is responsible for internal policy and decisionmaking in the European Union.
Government of France: The government of the French Republic is a semi-presidential system determined by the French Constitution of the fifth Republic. The nation declares itself to be an "indivisible, secular, democratic, and social Republic". The constitution provides for a separation of powers and proclaims France's "attachment to the Rights of Man and the principles of national sovereignty as defined by the Declaration of 1789.
Transport in France: Transport in France relies on one of the densest and most efficient networks in the world with 146 km of road and 6.2 km of rail lines per 100 km. It is built as a web with Paris at its center. France is currently one of the world leaders in railway technology and is also in the forefront of modern tramway developments.
French Armed Forces: The French Armed Forces encompass an army, a navy, an air force and a gendarmerie. The President of the Republic heads the armed forces, with the title of "chef des arms" - "chief of the military forces". The President is the supreme authority for military matters and is the sole official who can order a nuclear strike.
French Guinea: French Guinea was a French colonial possession and (after 1956) a protectorate in West Africa. Its borders, while changed over time, were in 1958 those of the independent nation of Guinea. French Guinea was established in 1891, taking the same borders as the previous colony of Rivies du Sud (1882-1891). Prior to 1882, the coastal portions of French Guinea were part of the French colony of Senegal.
Geography of French Polynesia: This article describes the geography of French Polynesia.
Demographics of French Polynesia: This article is about the demographic features of the population of French Polynesia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of French Polynesia: Politics of French Polynesia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic French overseas collectivity, whereby the President of French Polynesia is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Assembly of French Polynesia. Between 1946 and 2003, French Polynesia had the status of an overseas territory . In 2003 it became an overseas collectivity.
French Polynesia: French Polynesia [rnt pli] is a French overseas collectivity in the southern Pacific Ocean. It is made up of several groups of Polynesian islands, the most famous island being Tahiti in the Society Islands group, which is also the most populous island and the seat of the capital of the territory. Although not an integral part of its territory, Clipperton Island was administered from French Polynesia until 2007.
Foreign relations of France: France File:Armoiries rublique franise.
Economy of French Polynesia: Economy - overview: Since 1962, when France stationed military personnel in the region, French Polynesia has changed from a subsistence economy to one in which a high proportion of the work force is either employed by the military or supports the tourist industry. Tourism accounts for about one-fourth of GDP and is a primary source of hard currency earnings. The small manufacturing sector primarily processes agricultural products.
Ford disambiguation: Ford refers to the Ford Motor Company. Ford may also refer to:
History of French Guiana: The history of French Guiana spans many centuries. Before the first Europeans arrived, there was no written history in the territory. It was originally inhabited by a number of Native American peoples, among them the Carib, Arawak, Emerillon, Galibi, Palikour, Wayampi (also known as Oyampi) and Wayana. The first Europeans arrived in the expeditions of Christopher Columbus, shortly before 1500.
Transport in French Polynesia: Railways: 0 km Highways: total: 2590 km paved: 1735 km unpaved: 855 km (1999) Ports and harbours: Mataura, Papeete, Rikitea, Uturoa Merchant marine: total: 10 ships totaling 17,537 GRT/15,150 metric tons deadweight (DWT) ships by type: cargo ship 3, passenger ship 2, passenger/cargo 3, refrigerated cargo 1, roll-on/roll-off ship 1 (2003 est. ) Airports: 49 (2003 est. ) Airports - with paved runways: total: 37 over 3,047 m: 2 1,524 to 2,437 m: 5 914 to 1,523 m: 23 under 914 m: 3 (2004 est.
Geography of French Guiana: Geography of French Guiana.
French Southern and Antarctic Lands: The French Southern and Antarctic Lands, full name Territory of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands, consist of: a group of volcanic islands in the southern Indian Ocean, southeast of Africa, approximately equidistant between Africa, Antarctica and Australia; Adie Land, the French claim on the Antarctica continent; the Scattered islands in the Indian Ocean.
Politics of French Guiana: French Guiana is not a separate territory but both an overseas Rion and overseas department of France, with the same government institutions as areas on the French mainland. The administrive centre is Cayenne. France is represented by prefect Daniel Ferey, but the President of the general council is Alain Tien-Liong and the President of the regional council is Antoine Karam.
Demographics of French Guiana: Population: 172,605 (July 2000 est. ), 202,000 (January 2006 est. ) Age structure: 0-14 years: 31% (male 27,116; female 25,902) 15-64 years: 64% (male 59,690; female 50,621) 65 years and over: 5% (male 4,694; female 4,582) (2000 est. ) Population growth rate: 1.96% (2006 est. ) Birth rate: 22.44 births/1,000 population (2000 est. ) Death rate: 4.76 deaths/1,000 population (2000 est. ) Net migration rate: 11.59 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2000 est.
Foreign relations of French Guiana: Disputes - international: Suriname claims area between Litani River and Marouini River (both headwaters of the Lawa) Illicit drugs: small amount of cannabis grown for local consumption; minor transshipment point to Europe
Economy of French Guiana: The economy of French Guiana is tied closely to that of France through subsidies and imports. Besides the French space center at Kourou, fishing and forestry are the most important economic activities. The large reserves of tropical hardwoods, not fully exploited, support an expanding sawmill industry which provides sawn logs for export. Cultivation of crops is limited to the coastal area, where the population is largely concentrated; rice and manioc are the major crops.
Flying car aircraft: A flying car or roadable aircraft is a vehicle which can travel on roads and in the air. It is both an aircraft and an automobile. All the working examples have required some manual or automated process of conversion between the two modes of operation. A slightly different concept that is sometimes referred to as a "flying car", particularly in science fiction, is that of an aircraft that would be practical enough for every day travel, but would not necessarily be drivable on the roads.
Fran ois Truffaut: Franis Roland Truffaut (6 February 1932 - 21 October 1984) was an influential filmmaker and one of the founders of the French New Wave. In a film career lasting over a quarter of a century, he remains an icon of the French film industry. He was also a screenwriter, producer, and actor working on over twenty-five films.
Fair use: Fair use is a doctrine in United States copyright law that allows limited use of copyrighted material without requiring permission from the rights holders, such as for commentary, criticism, news reporting, research, teaching or scholarship. It provides for the legal, non-licensed citation or incorporation of copyrighted material in another author's work under a four-factor balancing test. The term "fair use" originated in the United States.
Friedrich W hler: Friedrich Wler (31 July 1800 - 23 September 1882) was a German chemist, best-known for his synthesis of urea, but also the first to isolate several chemical elements.
Film editing: Film editing is part of the post-production process of filmmaking. It involves the selection and combining of shots, connecting the resulting sequences, and ultimately creating a finished motion picture. It is an art of storytelling. Film editing is the only art that is unique to cinema, separating film-making from other art forms that preceded it, although there are close parallels to the editing process in other art forms like poetry or novel writing.
Funk: Funk is an American music genre that originated in the late 1960s when African American musicians blended soul music, soul jazz and R&B into a rhythmic, danceable new form of music. Funk de-emphasizes melody and harmony and brings a strong rhythmic groove of electric bass and drums to the foreground. Funk songs are often based on an extended vamp on a single chord, distinguishing it from R&B and soul songs centered around chord progressions.
Film festival: A film festival is an organised, extended presentation of films in one or more movie theaters or screening venues, usually in a single locality. The films may be of recent date and, depending upon the focus of the individual festival, can include international releases as well as films produced by the organisers' domestic film industry. Sometimes there is a focus on a specific film-maker or genre or subject matter (e.g. , gay and lesbian film festivals).
History of film: The history of film spans over a hundred years, from the latter part of the 19th century to the present day and beyond. Motion pictures developed gradually from a carnival novelty to one of the most important tools of communication and entertainment, and mass media in the 20th century. Motion picture films have had a substantial impact on the arts, technology, and politics.
Frequency: Frequency is the number of occurrences of a repeating event per unit time. It is also referred to as temporal frequency. The period is the duration of one cycle in a repeating event, so the period is the reciprocal of the frequency.
Cinema of the Soviet Union: The cinema of the Soviet Union, not to be confused with "Cinema of Russia" despite Russian language films being predominant in both genres, includes several film contributions of the constituent republics of the Soviet Union reflecting elements of their pre-Soviet culture, language and history, although sometimes censored by the Central Government.
Cinema of Italy: The history of Italian cinema began just a few months after the Lumie brothers had discovered the medium, when Pope Leo XIII was filmed for a few seconds in the act of blessing the camera.
Cinema of France: The Cinema of France comprises the art of film and creative movies made within the nation of France or by French filmmakers abroad. France is the birthplace of cinema and was responsible for many of its early significant contributions. Several important cinematic movements, including the Nouvelle Vague, began in the country. It is noted for having a particularly strong film industry, due in part to a certain level of protection afforded it by the French government.
Cinema of China: The Chinese-language cinema has three distinct historical threads: the Cinema of Hong Kong, the Cinema of Taiwan and Cinema of China. After 1949 and until recent times, the cinema of mainland China operated under restrictions imposed by the Communist Party of China. Some films with political overtones are still censored or banned in China itself. However, most of these films are allowed to be shown abroad in commercially distributed theaters or in film festivals.
Cinema of Japan: The cinema of Japan has a history that spans more than 100 years. Japan has one of the oldest and largest film industries in the world, being currently the third largest by number of feature films produced. Movies have been produced in Japan since 1897, when the first foreign cameramen arrived.
Cinema of the United Kingdom: The United Kingdom has had a large impact on modern cinema and has one the most respected film industries in the world. Despite a history of successful productions, the industry is characterised by an ongoing debate about its identity (including economic and cultural issues) and the influences of American and European cinema, although it is fair to say a brief 'golden age' was enjoyed in the 1940s from the studios of J. Arthur Rank and Alexander Korda.
Cinema of Poland: The history of cinema in Poland is almost as long as history of cinematography, and it has universal achievements, even though Polish movies tend to be less commercially available than movies from several other European nations. From 1955 onwards, the works of directors of the so-called Polish Film School had a great influence on the contemporary trends such as French New Wave, Italian neorealism or even late Classical Hollywood cinema. After World War II, despite censorship.
Feminist film theory: Feminist film theory is theoretical film criticism derived from feminist politics and feminist theory. Feminists have many approaches to cinema analysis, regarding the film elements analysed and their theoretical underpinnings.
Formalist film theory: Formalist film theory is a theory of film study that is focused on the formal, or technical, elements of a film: i.e. , the lighting, scoring, sound and set design, use of color, shot composition, and editing. It is a major theory of film study today.
Film theory: Film theory explores the essence of the cinema and provides conceptual frameworks for understanding film's relationship to reality, the other arts, individual viewers, and society at large. This term is not to be confused with general film criticism, which may, however, draw upon ideas from film theory.
Finnish: Finnish refers to something or someone from, or related to, Finland, such as: Culture of Finland Finnish people, the primary ethnic group in Finland The Finnish language, the national language of the Finnish people Finnish cuisine
Finno-Ugric languages: Finno-Ugric is a group of languages in the Uralic language family, comprising Estonian, Finnish, Hungarian and related languages. It comprises the Finno-Permic and Ugric language families.
Film noir: Film noir is a cinematic term used primarily to describe stylish Hollywood crime dramas, particularly those that emphasize cynical attitudes and sexual motivations. Hollywood's classic film noir period is generally regarded as stretching from the early 1940s to the late 1950s. Film noir of this era is associated with a low-key black-and-white visual style that has roots in German Expressionist cinematography.
Freestyle music: Freestyle or Latin Freestyle, also called Latin Hip Hop in its early years, is a form of electronic music which emerged in the early 1980s and declined around the early 1990s.
Fantasy psychology: A fantasy is a situation imagined by an individual or group that has no basis in reality but expresses certain desires or aims on the part of its creator. Fantasies typically involve situations which are impossible (such as the existence of magic powers) or highly unlikely. Fantasies can also be sexual in nature. Another, more basic meaning of fantasy is something which is not real, or cannot be real.
Franc: The franc is the name of several currency units, most notably the French franc, the currency of France until it adopted the euro in 1999 (by law, 2002 de facto), and the Swiss franc, still a major world currency today due to the prominence of Swiss financial institutions. The name is said to derive from the Latin inscription francorum rex ("King of the Franks") on early French coins, or from the French franc, meaning "free" (and "frank").
Francophone: The adjective francophone (alternately Francophone) means French-speaking, typically as primary language, whether referring to individuals, groups, or places. Often, the word is used as a noun to describe a natively French-speaking person. In a narrower sense, the notion of 'francophone' reaches beyond the dictionary definition of "French language speaker".
Family name: A family name (in Western contexts often referred to as a last name) is a type of surname and part of a person's name indicating the family to which the person belongs. The use of family names is widespread in cultures around the world. Each culture has its own rules as to how these names are applied and used. In many cultures (notably Euro-American, Middle Eastern, and African) the family name is normally the last part of a person's name. In other cultures, the family name comes first.
Fermium: Fermium is a synthetic element with the symbol Fm and atomic number 100. A highly radioactive metallic transuranic element of the actinide series, fermium is made by bombarding plutonium with neutrons and is named after nuclear physicist Enrico Fermi. Fermium is the eighth transuranic element.
Francium: Francium, formerly known as eka-caesium and actinium K, is a chemical element that has the symbol Fr and atomic number 87. It has one of the lowest electronegativities of all known elements, and is the second rarest naturally occurring element. Francium is a highly radioactive metal that decays into astatine, radium, and radon. As an alkali metal, it has one valence electron. Francium was discovered by Marguerite Perey in France (from which the element takes its name) in 1939.
Fr d ric Chopin: Fric Franis Chopin, in Polish Fryderyk Franciszek Chopin (in English, sometimes written Szopen in Polish; 1 March 1810 - 17 October 1849), was a Polish composer and virtuoso pianist. He is considered one of the great masters of Romantic music. Chopin was born in the village of elazowa Wola, in the Duchy of Warsaw, to a French-expatriate father and Polish mother. He was considered a child-prodigy pianist.
Federal Reserve System: The Federal Reserve System (also known as the Federal Reserve, and informally as the Fed) is the central banking system of the United States. It was conceived by several of the world's leading bankers in 1910 and enacted in 1913, with the passing of the Federal Reserve Act. The passing of the Federal Reserve Act was largely a response to prior financial panics and bank runs, the most severe of which being the Panic of 1907.
Federal Constitutional Court of Germany: The Federal Constitutional Court is a special court established by the Grundgesetz, the German basic law. Since its inception, the constitutional court has been located in the city of Karlsruhe, intentionally dislocated from the other federal institutions like the seat of the government, the head office of the Bundesnachrichtendienst (BND), the German intelligence agency, or the seat of the Bundesbank in Frankfurt (Main). The sole task of the court is judicial review.
Free Democratic Party Germany: The Free Democratic Party (Freie Demokratische Partei, FDP) is a liberal political party in Germany. It is the successor to the former liberal parties existing before World War II, the German People's Party, the German Democratic Party, and the National Liberal Party. Since its establishment in 1948, the party has been the third-largest party in Germany, having gained between 5.8% and 14.6% of the votes in federal elections.
Film crew: A film crew is a group of people hired by a production company for the purpose of producing a film or motion picture. Crew are distinguished from cast, the actors who appear in front of the camera or provide voices for characters in the film. Crew are also separate from producers, those who own a portion of either the film company or the film's intellectual property rights. A film crew is divided into different departments, each of which specializes in a specific aspect of the production.
Fax: A fax (short for facsimile) is a document sent over a telephone line. Fax machines have existed, in various forms, since the 19th century, though modern fax machines became feasible only in the mid-1970s as the sophistication increased and cost of the three underlying technologies dropped.
Fear: Fear is an emotional response to a perceived threat. It is a basic survival mechanism occurring in response to a specific stimulus, such as pain or the threat of danger. Some psychologists such as John B. Watson, Freitas-Magalhaes,Robert Plutchik, and Paul Ekman have suggested that fear is one of a small set of basic or innate emotions. This set also includes such emotions as joy, sadness, and anger.
Football team: A football team is the collective name given to a group of players selected together in the various team sports known as football. Such teams could be selected to play in an against an opposing team, to represent a football club, group, state or nation, an All-star team or even selected as a hypothetical team and never play an actual match.
F: F is the sixth letter in the basic modern Latin alphabet. English is spelled ef or f.
Frequency modulation: In telecommunications, frequency modulation (FM) conveys information over a carrier wave by varying its frequency (contrast this with amplitude modulation, in which the amplitude of the carrier is varied while its frequency remains constant). In analog applications, the instantaneous frequency of the carrier is directly proportional to the instantaneous value of the input signal.
Food preservation: Food preservation is the process of treating and handling food to stop or greatly slow down spoilage (loss of quality, edibility or nutritive value) caused or accelerated by micro-organisms. Some methods, however, use benign bacteria, yeasts or fungi to add specific qualities and to preserve food (e.g. , cheese, wine). Maintaining or creating nutritional value, texture and flavour is important in preserving its value as food.
List of film institutes: Some notable institutions celebrating film, including both national film institutes and independent and non-profit organizations.
Faith and rationality: Faith and rationality are two modes of belief that exist in varying degrees of conflict or compatibility. Faith is belief in inspiration, revelation, or authority. Rationality is belief based on reason or evidence. Broadly speaking, there are three categories of views regarding the relationship between faith and rationality: Rationalism holds that truth should be determined by reason and factual analysis, rather than faith, dogma, or religious teaching.
F wave: In neuroscience, an F wave is the second of two voltage changes observed after electrical stimulation is applied to the skin surface above the distal region of a nerve. F waves are often used to measure nerve conduction velocity, and are particularly useful for evaluating conduction problems in the proximal region of nerves (i.e. , portions of nerves near the spinal cord). It's called F wave because it was initially recorded in the foot muscles.
French materialism: French materialism is the name given to a handful of French 18th century philosophers during the Age of Enlightenment, many of them clustered around the salon of Baron d'Holbach. Although there are important differences between them, all of them were materialists who believed that the world was made up of a single substance, matter, the motions and properties of which could be used to explain all phenomena.
Fruit: In broad terms, a fruit is a structure of a plant that contains its seeds. The term has different meanings dependent on context.
February: February (pronunciation) is the second month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars. It is the shortest month and the only month with fewer than 30 days. The month has 29 days in leap years, when the year number is divisible by four (except for years that are divisible by 100 and not by 400 in the Gregorian calendar). In common years the month has 28 days. In the Southern Hemisphere, February is the seasonal equivalent of August in the Northern Hemisphere.
First Lady of the United States: First Lady of the United States is the title of the hostess of the White House. Because this position is traditionally filled by the wife of the President of the United States, the title is most often applied to the wife of a sitting president. However, several women who were not presidents' wives have served as first lady, as when the president was a bachelor or widower, or when the wife of the president was unable to fulfill the duties of the first lady herself.
Frank Herbert: Franklin Patrick Herbert, Jr. (October 8, 1920 - February 11, 1986) was a critically acclaimed and commercially successful American science fiction author. Although a short story author, he is best known for his novels, most notably Dune and its five sequels. The Dune saga, set in the distant future and taking place over millennia, deals with themes such as human survival and evolution, ecology, and the intersection of religion, politics and power.
Fictional language: Fictional languages are by far the largest group of artistic languages. Fictional languages are intended to be the languages of a fictional world and are often designed with the intent of giving more depth and an appearance of plausibility to the fictional worlds with which they are associated, and to have their characters communicate in a fashion which is both alien and dislocated. Some of these languages, e.g.
Franco Baresi: Franco Baresi is an Italian youth team coach and former football defender with Milan, acknowledged as one of the greatest defenders ever to play the game. Baresi was colloquially called "piscinin", Milanese dialect for "little one". He is also the younger brother of Internazionale assistant manager Giuseppe Baresi. Hoping Franco could play with him in the nerazzurri; Giuseppe brought him for a trial in Inter's youth team, but Franco was rejected.
Franz Kafka: Franz Kafka (3 July 1883 - 3 June 1924) is one of the most important and influential fiction writers of the early 20th century; a novelist and writer of short stories whose works, only after his death, came to be regarded as one of the major achievements of 20th century literature. He was born to middle-class German-speaking Jewish parents in Prague, Bohemia, now part of the Czech Republic, in what was then the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
Stage stratigraphy: In chronostratigraphy, a stage is a succession of rock strata laid down in a single age on the geologic timescale, which usually represents millions of years of deposition. A given stage of rock and the corresponding age of time will by convention have the same name, and the same boundaries. Rock series are divided into stages, just as geological epochs are divided into ages. Stages can be divided into smaller stratigraphic units called chronozones.
Fields Medal: The Fields Medal is a prize awarded to two, three, or four mathematicians not over 40 years of age at each International Congress of the International Mathematical Union, a meeting that takes place every four years. The Fields Medal is often viewed as the top honor a mathematician can receive. It comes with a monetary award, which in 2006 was C$15,000.
Formula One: Formula One, also known as Formula 1 or F1, and currently officially referred to as the FIA Formula One World Championship, is the highest class of auto racing sanctioned by the Fation Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). The "formula" in the name refers to a set of rules to which all participants' cars must comply The F1 season consists of a series of races, known as Grands Prix, held on purpose-built circuits, and to a lesser extent, former public roads and closed city streets.
The Metamorphosis: The Metamorphosis is a novella by Franz Kafka, first published in 1915. It is often cited as one of the seminal works of short fiction of the 20th century and is widely studied in colleges and universities across the western world; Elias Canetti described it as "one of the few great and perfect works of the poetic imagination written during this century". The story begins with a traveling salesman, Gregor Samsa, waking to find himself transformed into a vermin.
FSF: FSF can stand for:
Francisco Goya: Francisco Jos de Goya y Lucientes (30 March 1746 - 16 April 1828) was a Spanish painter and printmaker regarded both as the last of the Old Masters and as the first of the moderns. Goya was a court painter to the Spanish Crown and a chronicler of history. The subversive and subjective element in his art, as well as his bold handling of paint, provided a model for the work of later generations of artists, notably Manet and Picasso.
The Trial: The Trial is a novel by Franz Kafka, first published in 1925. One of Kafka's best-known works, it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, inaccessible authority, with the nature of his crime never revealed either to him or the reader. Like Kafka's other novels, The Trial was never completed, although it does include a chapter which brings the story to an end. After his death in 1924, Kafka's friend and literary executor Max Brod edited the text for publication.
Frequency probability: Frequency probability is the interpretation of probability that defines an event's probability as the limit of its relative frequency in a large number of trials. The development of the frequentist account was motivated by the problems and paradoxes of the previously dominant viewpoint, the classical interpretation. The shift from the classical view to the frequentist view represents a paradigm shift in the progression of statistical thought.
List of French-language poets: Poets who have written in the French language:
FM-2030: FM-2030 (October 15, 1930 - July 8, 2000) was an author, teacher, transhumanist philosopher, futurist and consultant. FM-2030 was born Fereidoun M. Esfandiary. He became notable as a transhumanist with the book Are You a Transhuman?: Monitoring and Stimulating Your Personal Rate of Growth in a Rapidly Changing World, published in 1989. In addition, he wrote a number of works of fiction under his original name F.M. Esfandiary.
West Flemish: West Flemish is a group of Dutch dialects spoken in parts of the Netherlands, Belgium, and France. West Flemish is spoken by around 1.05 million people in West Flanders (in Belgium), 90,000 in the neighbouring Dutch coastal district of Zeelandic Flanders, and approximately 20,000 in the northern part of the French dartement of Nord where it is classified, as a recognized dialect of Dutch, as one of the languages of France.
Fritz Leiber: Fritz Reuter Leiber Jr. (December 24, 1910 - September 5, 1992) was an American writer of fantasy, horror and science fiction. He was also an expert chess player and a champion fencer. Leiber (first syllable sounds like "lie") was born Dec 24, 1910 in Chicago, Illinois to Fritz Leiber, Sr and Virginia Leiber, thespians (theater and actors feature heavily in his narrative) and, for a time, seemed inclined to follow in his parents' footsteps.
Freud disambiguation: Sigmund Freud (1856-1939) was the inventor of psychoanalysis, psychosexual stages, and personality theory of Ego, Superego and Id. Freud may also refer to: Freud (crater), a lunar crater Freud (mini-series), a 1984 mini-series starring David Suchet ', a 1962 film by John Huston and starring Montgomery Clift Freud, a chimpanzee in the Kasakela community
Plurality voting system: The plurality voting system is a single-winner voting system often used to elect executive officers or to elect members of a legislative assembly which is based on single-member constituencies. This voting method is also used in multi-member constituencies in what is referred to as an exhaustive counting system where one member is elected at a time and the process repeated until the number of vacancies is filled.
February 14: February 14 is internationally known as Valentine's Day, a holiday celebrating love and affection between intimate companions. In the Armenian Apostolic Church, February 14 is the feast of the Presentation of Jesus at the Temple.
Flanders: Flanders is the (political) community of the Flemings but also one of the institutions in Belgium, and a geographical region located in parts of present-day Belgium, France, and the Netherlands. Over the course of history, the geographical territory that was called "Flanders" has varied. In contemporary Belgium, Flanders might be understood as the 'country of the Flemings'.
French fries: French fries, fries, or french-fried potatoes and, in the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand, chips are thin strips of deep-fried potato. North Americans often refer to any elongated pieces of fried potatoes as fries, while in other parts of the world, long slices of fried potatoes are sometimes called fries to contrast them with the thickly cut strips, which are often referred to as chips.
Free trade area: Free trade area is a type of trade bloc, a designated group of countries that have agreed to eliminate tariffs, quotas and preferences on most (if not all) goods and services traded between them. It can be considered the second stage of economic integration. Countries choose this kind of economic integration form if their economical structures are complementary. If they are competitive, they will choose customs union.
Finagle's law: Finagle's Law of Dynamic Negatives (also known as Finagle's corollary to Murphy's Law) is usually rendered: Anything that can go wrong, will- at the worst possible moment One variant (known as O'Toole's Corollary of Finagle's Law) favored among hackers is a takeoff on the second law of thermodynamics (also known as entropy): The perversity of the Universe tends towards a maximum. The term "Finagle's Law" was first used by John W. Campbell, Jr.
Fundamental interaction: In physics, fundamental interactions (sometimes called fundamental forces) are the ways that the simplest particles in the universe interact with one another. An interaction is fundamental when it cannot be described in terms of other interactions. The four known fundamental interactions are electromagnetism, strong interaction, weak interaction (also known as "strong" and "weak nuclear force") and gravitation.
Field hockey: Field hockey is a team sport in which a team of players attempt to score goals by hitting, pushing or flicking the ball with hockey sticks into the opposing team's goal. Its official name is simply hockey, and this is the common name for it in many countries. However, the name field hockey is used in countries where the word hockey is usually reserved for another form of hockey, such as ice hockey or street hockey. Hockey has several regular international tournaments for both men and women.
Fencing: Fencing, also called modern fencing to disambiguate it from styles of historical fencing, is a family of combat sports using bladed weapons. Fencing is one of the four sports which has been featured at every modern Olympic Games. Currently, three types of weapon are used in Olympic fencing: Foil a light thrusting weapon; the valid target is restricted to the torso, the chest, shoulders, and back; double touches are not allowed (see priority rules below).
The Free Software Definition: The Free Software Definition, written by Richard Stallman and published by Free Software Foundation (FSF), defines free software, as a matter of liberty, not price. The term "free" is used in the sense of "free speech," not of "free beer. " The earliest known publication of the definition was in the February 1986 edition of the now-discontinued GNU's Bulletin publication of FSF. The canonical source for the document is in the philosophy section of the GNU Project website.
Felix Bloch: Felix Bloch (October 23, 1905 - September 10, 1983) was a Swiss physicist, working mainly in the U.S.
Fugue state: A fugue state, formally Dissociative Fugue (previously called Psychogenic Fugue), is a rare psychiatric disorder characterized by reversible amnesia for personal identity, including the memories, personality and other identifying characteristics of individuality. The state is usually short-lived (hours to days), but can last months or longer. Dissociative fugue usually involves unplanned travel or wandering, and is sometimes accompanied by the establishment of a new identity.
Fugue: In music, a fugue is a type of contrapuntal composition or technique of composition for a fixed number of parts, normally referred to as "voices". In the Middle Ages, the term was widely used to denote any works in canonic style; by the Renaissance, it had come to denote specifically imitative works. Since the 17th century, the term fugue has described what is commonly regarded as the most fully developed procedure of imitative counterpoint.
Force: In physics, the concept of force is used to describe an influence that causes a free body to undergo an acceleration. Force can also be described by intuitive concepts such as a push or pull that can cause an object with mass to change its velocity (which includes to begin moving from a state of rest), i.e. , to accelerate, or which can cause a flexible object to deform. An applied force has both magnitude and direction, making it a vector quantity.
Floppy disk: A floppy disk is a data storage medium that is composed of a disk of thin, flexible ("floppy") magnetic storage medium encased in a square or rectangular plastic shell. Floppy disks are read and written by a floppy disk drive or FDD, the initials of which should not be confused with "fixed disk drive", which is another term for a (nonremovable) type of hard disk drive.
Family law: Family law is an area of the law that deals with family-related issues and domestic relations including: the nature of marriage, civil unions, and domestic partnerships; issues arising during marriage, including spousal abuse, legitimacy, adoption, surrogacy, child abuse, and child abduction the termination of the relationship and ancillary matters including divorce, annulment, property settlements, alimony, and parental responsibility orders.
Foonly: Foonly was the computer company formed by Dave Poole, who was one of the principal Super Foonly designers as well as one of hackerdom's more colorful personalities. The PDP-10 successor was to have been built by the Super Foonly project at the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory along with a new operating system. The intention was to leapfrog from the old DEC timesharing system SAIL was then running to a new generation, bypassing TENEX which at that time was the ARPANET standard.
Fractal: A fractal is "a rough or fragmented geometric shape that can be split into parts, each of which is (at least approximately) a reduced-size copy of the whole," a property called self-similarity. Roots of mathematical interest in fractals can be traced back to the late 19th Century; however, the term "fractal" was coined by Benot Mandelbrot in 1975 and was derived from the Latin ' meaning "broken" or "fractured.
Functional group: In organic chemistry, functional groups are specific groups of atoms within molecules that are responsible for the characteristic chemical reactions of those molecules. The same functional group will undergo the same or similar chemical reaction(s) regardless of the size of the molecule it is a part of. However, its relative reactivity can be modified by nearby functional groups.
Fluid: A fluid is a substance that continually deforms (flows) under an applied shear stress. All gases are fluids, but not all liquids are fluids. Fluids are a subset of the phases of matter and include liquids, gases, plasmas and, to some extent, plastic solids. In common usage, "fluid" is often used as a synonym for "liquid", with no implication that gas could also be present. For example, "brake fluid" is hydraulic oil and will not perform its required function if there is gas in it.
FAQ: Frequently asked questions, or FAQs are listed questions and answers, all supposed to be frequently asked in some context, and pertaining to a particular topic. Since the acronym FAQ originated in textual media, its pronunciation varies; "fack," "fax," "facts," and "F.A.Q. " are commonly heard. Depending on usage, the term may refer specifically to a single frequently asked question, or to an assembled list of many questions and their answers.
Fibonacci number: In mathematics, the Fibonacci numbers are the numbers in the following sequence: By definition, the first two Fibonacci numbers are 0 and 1, and each remaining number is the sum of the previous two. Some sources omit the initial 0, instead beginning the sequence with two 1s.
Finite-state machine: A finite state machine (FSM) or finite state automaton, or simply a state machine, is a model of behavior composed of a finite number of states, transitions between those states, and actions. It is similar to a "flow graph" where we can inspect the way in which the logic runs when certain conditions are met. A finite state machine is an abstract model of a machine with a primitive (sometimes read-only) internal memory.
Fighter aircraft: A fighter aircraft is a military aircraft designed primarily for air-to-air combat with other aircraft, as opposed to a bomber, which is designed primarily to attack ground targets by dropping bombs. Fighters are small, fast, and maneuverable. Many fighters have secondary ground-attack capabilities, and some are dual-roled as fighter-bombers; the term "fighter" is also sometimes used colloquially for dedicated ground-attack aircraft.
February 29: February 29 in the Gregorian calendar, the most widely used today, is a date that occurs only once every four years, in years evenly divisible by 4, such as 1976, 1996, 2000, 2004, 2008, 2012 or 2016 (with the exception of century years not divisible by 400, such as 1900). These are called leap years. February 29 is the 60th day of the Gregorian calendar in such a year, with 306 days remaining until the end of that year. It is also known as Leap Day.
Fontainebleau: Fontainebleau is a commune in the metropolitan area of Paris, France. It is located 55.5 kilometres (34.5 mi) south-southeast of the centre of Paris. Fontainebleau is a sub-prefecture of the Seine-et-Marne department, and it is the seat of the arrondissement of Fontainebleau. The commune has the largest land area in the le-de-France region; it is the only one to cover a larger area than Paris itself.
Francis Scott Key: Francis Scott Key (August 1, 1779 - January 11, 1843) was an American lawyer, author, and amateur poet, from Georgetown, who wrote the words to the United States' national anthem, "The Star-Spangled Banner."
Free to Choose: Free to Choose (1980) is a book and a ten-part television series advocating the free market by economists Milton and Rose D. Friedman.
Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit: The Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit is a street circuit around Albert Park Lake, only a couple of kilometres south of central Melbourne. It is used once a year as a racetrack for the Australian Grand Prix and associated support races.
Formal language: A formal language is a set of words, i.e. finite strings of letters, symbols, or tokens. The set from which these letters are taken is called the alphabet over which the language is defined. A formal language is often defined by means of a formal grammar (also called its formation rules); accordingly, words that belong to a formal language are sometimes called well-formed words.
Fission: Fission is a splitting of something into two parts. Fission may refer to: In physics, nuclear fission is a process where a large atomic nucleus (such as uranium) is split into two smaller particles.
Monaco Grand Prix: The Monaco Grand Prix is a Formula One race held each year on the Circuit de Monaco. Run since 1929, it is widely considered to be one of the most important and prestigious automobile races in the world, alongside the Indianapolis 500 and the 24 Hours of Le Mans (informally known as the Triple Crown of Motorsport). The circuit has been called "an exceptional location of glamour and prestige.
Four color theorem: In mathematics, the four color theorem, or the four color map theorem, states that given any separation of a plane into contiguous regions, called a map, the regions can be colored using at most four colors so that no two adjacent regions have the same color. Two regions are called adjacent only if they share a border segment, not just a point. Despite the motivation from coloring political maps of countries, the theorem is not of particular interest to mapmakers.
Francis Xavier: Saint Francis Xavier, born Francisco de Jaso y Azpilicueta was a pioneering Roman Catholic missionary born in the Kingdom of Navarre and co-founder of the Society of Jesus. He was a student of Saint Ignatius Loyola and one of the first seven Jesuits who dedicated themselves to the service of God at Montmarte in 1534. He led an extensive mission into Asia, mainly in the Asian Portuguese Empire of the time.
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act: The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA or the Buckley Amendment) is a United States federal law codified at 20 U.S.C. 1232g, with implementing regulations in title 34, part 99 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The regulations provide that educational agencies and institutions that receive funding under a program administered by the U. S.
Fossil: Fossils (from Latin fossus, literally "having been dug up") are the preserved remains or traces of animals, plants, and other organisms from the remote past. The totality of fossils, both discovered and undiscovered, and their placement in fossiliferous (fossil-containing) rock formations and sedimentary layers is known as the fossil record.
Forgetting: Forgetting (retention loss) refers to apparent loss of information already encoded and stored in an individual's long term memory. It is a spontaneous or gradual process in which old memories are unable to be recalled from memory storage. It is subject to delicately balanced optimization that ensures that relevant memories are recalled. Forgetting can be reduced by repetition and/or more elaborate cognitive processing of information.
Fay Wray: Fay Wray (born Vina Fay Wray; September 15, 1907 - August 8, 2004) was a Canadian-American actress. Through an acting career that spanned 57 years, Wray attained international stardom as an actress in horror film roles, leading to many considering her as the first "scream queen". After appearing in minor film roles, Wray gained media attention being selected as one of the "WAMPAS Baby Stars". This led to Wray being signed to Paramount Pictures as a teenager.
Forgetting curve: The forgetting curve illustrates the decline of memory retention in time. A related concept is the strength of memory that refers to the durability that memory traces in the brain. The stronger the memory, the longer period of time that a person is able to recall it. A typical graph of the forgetting curve shows that humans tend to halve their memory of newly learned knowledge in a matter of days or weeks unless they consciously review the learned material.
Free-running sleep: Free-running sleep experiments can involve any organism which sleeps. Freerunning sleep is sleep which is not adjusted, entrained, to the 24-hour cycle in nature nor to any artificial cycle. Such experiments are used in the study of circadian and other rhythms in biology.
Field-programmable gate array: A field-programmable gate array (FPGA) is an integrated circuit designed to be configured by the customer or designer after manufacturing- hence "field-programmable". The FPGA configuration is generally specified using a hardware description language (HDL), similar to that used for an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) (circuit diagrams were previously used to specify the configuration, as they were for ASICs, but this is increasingly rare).
Fahrenheit 451: Fahrenheit 451 is a dystopian novel by Ray Bradbury which was first published in 1953. The novel presents a future American society in which the masses are hedonistic and critical thought through reading is outlawed. The central character, Guy Montag, is employed as a "fireman" (which, in this future, means "bookburner"). The number "451" refers to the temperature at which book paper combusts.
Fenrir: In Norse mythology, Fenrir, Fenrislfr (Old Norse "Fenris wolf"), Hritnir (Old Norse "fame-wolf"), or Vagandr (Old Norse "the monster of the river V") is a monstrous wolf. Fenrir is attested in the Poetic Edda, compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and the Prose Edda and Heimskringla, written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson.
Fatty acid: In chemistry, especially biochemistry, a fatty acid is a carboxylic acid with a long unbranched aliphatic tail, which is either saturated or unsaturated. Carboxylic acids as short as butyric acid are considered to be fatty acids, whereas fatty acids derived from natural fats and oils may be assumed to have at least eight carbon atoms, caprylic acid (octanoic acid), for example.
Franklin D. Roosevelt: Franklin Delano Roosevelt was the 32nd President of the United States and a central figure in world events during the mid-20th century, leading the United States during a time of worldwide economic crisis and world war. The only American president elected to more than two terms, he was often referred to by his initials, FDR. Roosevelt won his first of four presidential elections in 1932, while the United States was in the depths of the Great Depression.
Four Freedoms: The Four Freedoms were goals articulated by US President Franklin D. Roosevelt on January 6, 1941.
Fearless 1993 film: Fearless is a 1993 film directed by Peter Weir and written by Rafael Yglesias from his novel of the same name. It was shot entirely in California. Rosie Perez was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Carla Rodrigo. She lost to Anna Paquin for The Piano. Jeff Bridges' role as Max Klein is widely regarded as one of the best performances of his career. The film's soundtrack features part of the first movement of Henryk Gecki's Symphony No.
Final Fantasy: Final Fantasy is a media franchise created by Hironobu Sakaguchi, and is developed and owned by Square Enix. The franchise centers on a series of fantasy and science-fantasy console role-playing games (RPGs), but includes motion pictures, anime, printed media, and other merchandise. The series began in 1987 as an eponymous video game developed to save Square from bankruptcy; the game was a success and spawned sequels.
Functor: In category theory, a branch of mathematics, a functor is a special type of mapping between categories. Functors can be thought of as homomorphisms between categories, or morphisms in the category of small categories. Functors were first considered in algebraic topology, where algebraic objects are associated to topological spaces, and algebraic homomorphisms are associated to continuous maps. Nowadays, functors are used throughout modern mathematics to relate various categories.
Felix Hausdorff: Felix Hausdorff (November 8, 1868 - January 26, 1942) was a German mathematician who is considered to be one of the founders of modern topology and who contributed significantly to set theory, descriptive set theory, measure theory, function theory, and functional analysis.
First-order logic: First-order logic is a formal logic used in mathematics, philosophy, linguistics, and computer science. It goes by many names, including: first-order predicate calculus, the lower predicate calculus, quantification theory, and predicate logic. First-order logic is distinguished from propositional logic by its use of quantifiers; each interpretation of first-order logic includes a domain of discourse over which the quantifiers range.
Fimbulvetr: In Norse mythology, Fimbulvetr (or fimbulvinter) is the immediate prelude to the events of Ragnar. Fimbulvetr is three successive winters where snow comes in from all directions, without any intervening summer. During this time, there will be innumerable wars and brothers will kill brothers. The prefix 'fimbul' means "the great/big" so the correct interpretation of the word is "the great winter".
Albert of Saxony: Albert (Dresden, 23 April 1828 - Schloss Sibyllenort, 19 June 1902) was a King of Saxony and a member of the House of Wettin. He was the eldest son of Prince John, (who succeeded his brother Frederick Augustus II on the Saxon throne as King John in 1854) by his wife Amalie Auguste of Bavaria. Albert had a successful military career leading Saxon troops which participated in the First War of Schleswig, the Austro-Prussian War, and the Franco-Prussian War.
Fran ois d'Aguilon: Franis d'Aguilon (also d'Aguillon or in Latin Franciscus Aguilonius) (4 January 1567, Brussels - 20 March 1617, Tournai), was a Belgian Jesuit mathematician, physicist and architect. He became a Jesuit in 1586. In 1611, he started a special school of mathematics, in Antwerp, which intended to perpetuate the mathematical research and study in the Jesuit society. This school produced geometers like Andr Tacquet and Jean-Charles della Faille.
Freenet: Freenet is a decentralized, censorship-resistant distributed data store originally designed by Ian Clarke. According to Clarke, Freenet aims to provide freedom of speech through a peer-to-peer network with strong protection of anonymity; as part of supporting its users' freedom, Freenet is free and open source software. Freenet works by pooling the contributed bandwidth and storage space of member computers to allow users to anonymously publish or retrieve various kinds of information.
Fred Hoyle: Sir Fred Hoyle FRS (24 June 1915 - 20 August 2001) was an English astronomer noted primarily for his contribution to the theory of stellar nucleosynthesis and his often controversial stance on other cosmological and scientific mattersin particular his rejection of the "Big Bang" theory, a term originally coined by him as a jocular, perhaps disparaging, name for the theory which was the main rival to his own.
Frankfurt am Main: Frankfurt am Main, commonly known simply as Frankfurt, is the largest city in the German state of Hesse and the fifth-largest city in Germany, with a 2008 population of 670,000. The urban area had an estimated population of 2.26 million in 2001. The city is at the centre of the larger Frankfurt/Rhine-Main Metropolitan Region which has a population of 5.3 million and is Germany's second largest metropolitan area.
Fortified wine: Fortified wine is wine to which a distilled beverage has been added. When added to wine before the fermentation process is complete, the alcohol in the distilled beverage kills the yeast and leaves residual sugar behind. The end result is a wine that is both sweeter and stronger, normally containing about 20% alcohol by volume (ABV). The original reason for fortifying wine was to preserve it, since ethanol is a natural antiseptic.
Five-spice powder: Five-spice powder is a mixture of five spices. It encompasses all five flavors of sweet, sour, bitter, pungent, and salty. It is popular in Chinese cuisine, but also used in other Asian cookery.
Fundamental group: In mathematics, more specifically algebraic topology, the fundamental group or Poincar group (named after Henri Poincar who gave the definition in his article Analysis Situs, published in 1895) is a group associated to any given pointed topological space that provides a way of determining when two paths, starting and ending at a fixed base point, can be continuously deformed into each other. Intuitively, it records information about the basic shape, or holes, of the topological space.
French cuisine: French cuisine is a style of cooking originating from France, having evolved from centuries of social and political change. The Middle Ages brought Guillaume Tirel, better known as Taillevent. The modern age, starting in the 17th century, however, saw a move toward fewer spices and more liberal usage of herbs and refined techniques, beginning with La Varenne and further developing with the notable chef of Napoleon and other dignitaries, Marie-Antoine Carme.
February 24: By Roman custom, February 24 is the day added to a leap year in the Julian calendar. The Mensis Intercalaris began on this day or the following day in intercalary years in the pre-Julian calendar.
FBI disambiguation: FBI is the commonly used acronym for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in the United States. FBI may also refer to: In film, television, and radio: The FBI Story, 1959 film about the Federal Bureau of Investigation The F.B.I.
Forth programming language: Forth is a structured, imperative, reflective, stack-based computer programming language and programming environment. Forth is sometimes spelled in all capital letters following the customary usage during its earlier years, although the name is not an acronym.
Francesco Algarotti: Count Francesco Algarotti (11 December 1712 - 3 May 1764) was an Italian philosopher and art critic. He also completed engravings. He was born in Venice to a rich merchant. He studied at Rome for a year, and then Bologna, he studied natural sciences and mathematics. At age of twenty, he went to Paris, where he became friendly with Voltaire and produced his Neutonianismo per le dame ("Newtonism for Ladies"), a work on optics. Voltaire called him his "cher cygne de Padoue" ("dear swan of Padua").
Francisco lvares: Francisco vares (c. 1465 - c. 1540) was a Portuguese missionary and explorer. Born in Coimbra, Portugal, as an adult he was a chaplain-priest and almoner to King Manuel I of Portugal. He was sent in 1515 as part of an embassy to the ngus nt of Ethiopia, accompanied by the Ethiopian ambassador Mattheus.
Francesco Andreini: Francesco Andreini (c. 1548 - 1624) was an Italian actor. Andreini was born at Pistoia. He was a member of the company of i Gelosi which Henry IV of France summoned to Paris to his bride, the young queen Marie de Medici, thus introducing the commedia dell'arte style to France. Both his wife, Isabella Andreini, and their son, Giambattista Andreini, were also distinguished in the arts.
Fifth Monarchists: The Fifth Monarchists or Fifth Monarchy Men were active from 1649 to 1661 during the Interregnum, following the English Civil Wars of the 17th century. They took their name from a belief in a prophesy in the Book of Daniel that four ancient monarchies (Assyrian, Persian, Macedonian, and Roman) would precede Christ's return. They also refer to the year 1666 and its numerical relationship to a passage in the Biblical Book of Revelation indicating the end of earthly rule by carnal human beings.
Francis Hopkinson: Francis Hopkinson (September 21, 1737 - May 9, 1791), an American author, was one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence as a delegate from New Jersey. He later served as a federal judge in Pennsylvania. His supporters believe he played a key role in the design of the first American flag.
List of programmers: This is a list of programmers notable for their contributions to software, either as original author or architect, or for later additions.
Formant: File:Spectrogram -iua-. png Spectrogram of American English vowels [i, u, ] showing the formants f1 and f2 Formants are defined by Fant as 'the spectral peaks of the sound spectrum |P(f)|' of the voice. Formant is also used to mean an acoustic resonance, and, in speech science and phonetics, a resonance of the human vocal tract.
Film stock: This focuses on motion picture film. For still photography film, see photographic film. Film stock is photographic film on which motion pictures are shot and reproduced.
Honorius emperor: Flavius Honorius (9 September 384 - 15 August 423 AD) was Roman Emperor (393-395) and then Western Roman Emperor from 395 until his death. He was the younger son of Theodosius I and his first wife Aelia Flaccilla, and brother of the Eastern Emperor Arcadius. Even by the standards of the rapidly declining Western Empire, Honorius' reign was precarious and chaotic.
Frederick Douglass: Frederick Douglass (born Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey, circa 1818 - February 20, 1895) was born into slavery and is best known for his role in bringing the harsh realities of slavery to the attention of white Americans, at the same time being a living example of the fallacy of claims that black Americans were intellectually inferior to whites. He was an American abolitionist, women's suffragist, editor, orator, author, statesman and reformer.
Fluid dynamics: In physics, fluid dynamics is a sub-discipline of fluid mechanics that deals with fluid flowthe natural science of fluids in motion. It has several subdisciplines itself, including aerodynamics (the study of air and other gases in motion) and hydrodynamics (the study of liquids in motion).
Fin: A fin is a surface used to produce lift and thrust or to steer while traveling in water, air, or other fluid media. The first use of the word was for the limbs of fish, but has been extended to include other animal limbs and man-made devices.
Freyr: Freyr, traditional Swedish "Fr/Fr" (sometimes anglicized Frey, from *frawjaz "lord") is one of the most important gods of Norse paganism. Freyr was highly associated with farming, weather and, as a phallic fertility god, Freyr "bestows peace and pleasure on mortals". Freyr, sometimes referred to as Yngvi-Freyr, was especially associated with Sweden and seen as an ancestor of the Swedish royal house.
Freyja: In Norse mythology, Freyja is a goddess associated with love, beauty, fertility, gold, sei, war, and death. Freyja is the owner of the necklace Brsingamen, rides a chariot driven by two cats, owns the boar Hildisvni, possesses a cloak of falcon feathers, and, by her husband , is the mother of two daughters; Hnoss and Gersemi. Along with her brother Freyr (Old Norse the "Lord"), her father Nj, and her mother (unnamed in sources), she is a member of the Vanir.
Ferdinand de Saussure: Ferdinand de Saussure (26 November 1857 - 22 February 1913) was a Swiss linguist whose ideas laid a foundation for many significant developments in linguistics in the 20th century. Saussure is widely considered to be one of the fathers of 20th-century linguistics and of semiotics, and his ideas have had a monumental impact throughout the humanities and social sciences.
Fat: Fats consist of a wide group of compounds that are generally soluble in organic solvents and largely insoluble in water. Chemically, fats are generally triesters of glycerol and fatty acids. Fats may be either solid or liquid at room temperature, depending on their structure and composition.
Front line: The Forward Line of Troops, or FEBA (Front Edge of Battlefield Area) is a term used by most armed force services worldwide. It is a battlespace control measure that designates the forward-most friendly and hostile forces that are presently on the battlefield during an armed conflict or war; whether it be regular infantry or reconnaissance. It can also identify the forward location of covering and screening forces.
First-class cricket: First-class cricket refers to the class of cricket matches of three or more days scheduled duration, between two sides of eleven players and officially adjudged first-class by virtue of the standard of the competing teams. Matches must allow for the teams to play two innings each, although, in practice, a team might only play zero or one innings. First-class cricket is an aspect of major cricket but is not major cricket per se, as is sometimes thought.
List of Presidents of FIFA: The following is a list of presidents of Fation Internationale de Football Association, the world association football governing body. Five of the seven former presidents died during their term. indicates that the title of Honorary President was conferred upon leaving office.
Five Pillars of Islam: The Five Pillars of Islam is the term given to the five duties incumbent on every Muslim. These duties are Shahadah (profession of faith), Salat (prayers), Zakat (giving of alms), Sawm and Hajj. These five practices are essential to Muslims.
Forge: A forge is the workplace of a smith or a blacksmith. A forge is sometimes referred to as a smithy. The basic smithy contains a forge, also known as a hearth, for heating metals. The forge heats the workpiece to a malleable temperature (a temperature where the metal becomes easier to shape) or to the point where work hardening no longer occurs. The workpiece is transported to and from the forge using tongs.
FIFA: The Fation Internationale de Football Association (International Federation of Association Football), commonly known by its acronym, FIFA, is the international governing body of association football. Its headquarters are located in Zrich, Switzerland, and its current president is Sepp Blatter. FIFA is responsible for the organization and governance of football's major international tournaments, most notably the FIFA World Cup, held since 1930.
Fascism: Fascism, pronounced /zm/, is a radical and authoritarian nationalist political ideology. Fascists seek to organize a nation on corporatist perspectives; values; and systems such as the political system and the economy. Scholars generally consider fascism to be on the far right of the conventional left-right political spectrum, although some scholars claim that fascism has been influenced by both the left and the right.
Faith: Faith is the confident belief or trust in the truth or trustworthiness of a person, concept or thing. The English word is thought to date from 1200-50, from the Latin fidem or fids, meaning trust, derived from the verb fdere, to trust. The term is employed in a religious or theological context to refer to a confident belief in a transcendent reality, a religious teacher, a set of scriptures, teachings or a Supreme Being.
Forest: A forest (also called a wood, woodland, wold, weald or holt) is an area with a high density of trees. There are many definitions of a forest, based on the various criteria.
Finger Lakes: The Finger Lakes are a chain of lakes in the west-central section of Upstate New York that are a popular tourist destination. The lakes mainly are linear in shape, each lake oriented on a north-south axis. The two longest, Cayuga Lake and Seneca Lake, are among the deepest in America. Both are close to 40 miles (64 km) from end to end, but never more than 3.5 miles (5,600 m) wide. Cayuga is the longest (38.1 miles, 61.3 km), but Seneca the largest in total area.
Friction: Friction is the force resisting the relative lateral (tangential) motion of solid surfaces, fluid layers, or material elements in contact. It is usually subdivided into several varieties: Dry friction resists relative lateral motion of two solid surfaces in contact. Dry friction is also subdivided into static friction between non-moving surfaces, and kinetic friction (sometimes called sliding friction or dynamic friction) between moving surfaces.
Kite: A kite is a flying tethered aircraft that depends upon the tension of a tethering system. The necessary lift that makes the kite wing fly is generated when air (or in some cases water) flows over and under the kite's wing, producing low pressure above the wing and high pressure below it. This deflection also generates horizontal drag along the direction of the wind. The resultant force vector from the lift and drag force components is opposed by the tension of the one or more lines or tethers.
Fanzine: A fanzine is a nonprofessional and nonofficial publication produced by fans of a particular cultural phenomenon (such as a literary or musical genre) for the pleasure of others who share their interest. The term was coined in an October 1940 science fiction fanzine by Russ Chauvenet and first popularized within science fiction fandom, from whom it was adopted by others. Typically, publishers, editors and contributors of articles or illustrations to fanzines receive no financial compensation.
Ford Motor Company: The Ford Motor Company is an American multinational corporation based in Dearborn, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. The automaker was founded by Henry Ford and incorporated on June 16, 1903. In addition to the Ford, Lincoln, and Mercury brands, Ford also owns Volvo Cars of Sweden, and a small stake in Mazda of Japan and Aston Martin of England. Ford's former UK subsidiaries Jaguar and Land Rover were sold to Tata Motors of India in March 2008.
Forgotten Futures: Forgotten Futures is a role-playing game created by Marcus Rowland to allow people to play in settings inspired by Victorian and Edwardian science fiction and fantasy. Most of its releases begin with these stories then add background material to explain the settings (often as alternate worlds whose history diverges from our own), adventures, and other game material.
Fabritio Caroso: Fabritio Caroso da Sermoneta (1526/1535 - 1605/1620) was an Italian Renaissance dancing master. His dance manual Il Ballarino was published in 1581, with a subsequent edition, significantly different, Nobilt di Dame, printed in 1600 and again after his death in 1630. The work has been published in English as Courtly Dance of the Renaissance by Julia Sutton. Both manuals have been printed in facsimile edition.
Fatah: Fata (also known as Fateh) is a major Palestinian political party and the largest faction of the Palestine Liberation Organization, a multi-party confederation. In Palestinian politics it is on the left-wing of the spectrum; it is mainly nationalist, although not predominantly socialist. Its main goal, as stated in Article 12 of the official Fatah constitution is the "complete liberation of Palestine, and eradication of Zionist economic, political, military and cultural existence.
FAO disambiguation: FAO may stand for: F.A.O. , abbreviation for "For attention of" Food and Agriculture Organization Finance and Accounting Outsourcing FAO may also refer to: F.A.O. Schwarz, a toy store chain Faro Airport (Portugal), IATA airport code Western Armed Forces (Forces Arms Occidentales), a Chadian insurgent group Broad Opposition Front (Frente Amplio Opositor), an umbrella organization of environmental groups within Mexico.
Food and Agriculture Organization: The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) is a specialised agency of the United Nations that leads international efforts to defeat hunger. Serving both developed and developing countries, FAO acts as a neutral forum where all nations meet as equals to negotiate agreements and debate policy.
F lix Guattari: Pierre-Fix Guattari (April 30, 1930 - August 29, 1992) was a French militant, an institutional psychotherapist and a philosopher; he founded both schizoanalysis and ecosophy. Guattari is best known for his intellectual collaborations with Gilles Deleuze, most notably Anti-Oedipus (1972) and A Thousand Plateaus (1980).
Filioque: Filioque, Latin for "and (from) the Son", was added in Western Christianity to the Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed, commonly referred to as the Nicene Creed. This insertion emphasizes that Jesus, the Son, is of equal divinity with God, the Father, while the absence of it in Eastern Christianity concentrates on the Father. Et in Spiritum Sanctum, Dominum, et vivificantem: qui ex Patre Filioque procedit.
Federal Information Processing Standard: Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) are publicly announced standards developed by the United States federal government for use by all non-military government agencies and by government contractors. Many FIPS standards are modified versions of standards used in the wider community.
First Council of Nicaea: The First Council of Nicaea was a council of Christian bishops convened in Nicaea in Bithynia by the Roman Emperor Constantine I in A.D. 325. The Council was historically significant as the first effort to attain consensus in the church through an assembly representing all of Christendom.
FIPS: FIPS may be: FIPS (computer program), a computer program for splitting hard disk partitions Federal Information Processing Standard, publicly announced standards developed by the U.S.
Fiqh: Fiqh is Islamic jurisprudence. Fiqh is an expansion of the Sharia Islamic lawbased directly on the Quran and Sunnahthat complements Shariah with evolving rulings/interpretations of Islamic jurists. Fiqh deals with the observance of rituals, morals and social legislation. There are four prominent Sunni schools of Fiqh and two schools for the Shi'a. A person trained in fiqh is known as a Faqih (plural Fuqaha).
Fornax: Fornax is a constellation in the southern sky. Its name is Latin for furnace. It was created in the eighteenth century and is now one of the 88 modern constellations.
Fox News Channel: Fox News Channel (FNC), commonly referred to as Fox or Fox News, is a cable and satellite news channel owned by the Fox Entertainment Group, a subsidiary of News Corporation. As of April 2009, it is available to 102 million households in the United States and further to viewers internationally, broadcasting primarily out of its New York City studios. The channel was created by Australian-American media mogul Rupert Murdoch, who hired Roger Ailes as its founding CEO.
Francesco Borromini: Francesco Borromini, byname of Francesco Castelli (25 September 1599 - 3 August 1667) was a Swiss Italian architect who, with his contemporaries, Gian Lorenzo Bernini and Pietro da Cortona, was a leading figure in the emergence of Roman Baroque architecture.
Federal Bureau of Investigation: The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is an agency of the United States Department of Justice that serves as both a federal criminal investigative body and an internal intelligence agency. The FBI has investigative jurisdiction over violations of more than 200 categories of federal crime. Its motto is "Fidelity, Bravery, Integrity", corresponding to the FBI initials. The FBI's headquarters, the J. Edgar Hoover Building, is located in Washington, D.C..
Freeciv: Freeciv is a multiplayer, turn-based strategy game for workstations and personal computers inspired by the commercial proprietary Sid Meier's Civilization series. The game's default settings are closest to Civilization II, both in gameplay and graphics (including the units and the isometric grid). Freeciv is available for most desktop computer operating systems. Released under the GNU General Public License, Freeciv is free and open source software.
Flamsteed designation: Flamsteed designations for stars are similar to Bayer designations, except that they use numbers instead of Greek letters. Each star is assigned a number and the Latin genitive of the constellation it lies in (see List of constellations for a list of constellations and the genitive forms of their names). Flamsteed designation contained 2554 stars.
FDR disambiguation: FDR may refer to: Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the 32nd President of the United States Franklin Delano Roosevelt Lake, the reservoir created by the Grand Coulee Dam Franklin Delano Roosevelt III (b. 1938), American economist Franklin D.
Fire: Fire is the rapid oxidation of a material in the chemical process of combustion, releasing heat, light, and various reaction products. Slower oxidative processes like rusting or digestion are not considered to be part of this definition. The flame is the visible portion of the fire and consists of glowing hot gases. If hot enough, the gases may become ionized to produce plasma.
Fresco: Fresco (plural either frescos or frescoes) is any of several related painting types, done on plaster on walls or ceilings. The word fresco comes from the Italian word affresco [afreso] which derives from the adjective fresco ("fresh"), which has Germanic origins. Frescoes were often made during the Renaissance and other early time periods.
Northrop F-5: The Northrop F-5A/B Freedom Fighter and F-5E/F Tiger II are part of a family of widely used light supersonic fighter aircraft, designed and built by Northrop in the United States, beginning in 1960s. Hundreds remain in service in air forces around the world in the early 21st Century, and the type has also been the basis for a number of other aircraft. The F-5 started life as a privately funded light fighter program by Northrop in the 1950s.
FIDE: The Fation Internationale des hecs or World Chess Federation is an international organization that connects the various national chess federations around the world and acts as the governing body of international chess competition. It is usually referred to as FIDE ("fee day"), its French acronym. FIDE was founded in Paris, France on July 20, 1924. Its motto is Gens una sumus, meaning "We are one people".
Fresnel equations: The Fresnel equations (or Fresnel conditions), deduced by Augustin-Jean Fresnel, describe the behaviour of light when moving between media of differing refractive indices. The reflection of light that the equations predict is known as Fresnel reflection.
Fudge role-playing game system: Fudge is a generic role-playing game system for use in freeform role-playing games. The name "FUDGE" was once an acronym for Freeform Universal Donated (later, Do-it-yourself) Gaming Engine and, though the acronym has since been dropped, that phrase remains a good summation of the game's design goals. Fudge has been nominated for an Origins Award for Best Role-Playing Game System for the Deryni Role-Playing Game.
Frederick Copleston: Frederick Charles Copleston, SJ, CBE was a Jesuit priest and historian of philosophy.
Figure skating: Figure skating is an Olympic sport in which individuals, pairs, or groups perform spins, jumps, footwork and other intricate and challenging moves on ice. Figure skaters compete at various levels from beginner up to the Olympic level (senior), and at local, national, and international competitions. The International Skating Union (ISU) regulates international figure skating judging and competitions. Figure skating is an official event in the Winter Olympic Games.
Fl klypa Grand Prix: Fllypa Grand Prix (released in the United Kingdom as an English dubbed version under the title Pinchcliffe Grand Prix) is a Norwegian stop motion-animated feature film directed by Ivo Caprino. It was released in 1975 and is based on characters from a series of books by Norwegian cartoonist and author Kjell Aukrust. It is the most widely-seen Norwegian film of all time, having sold some 5.5 million tickets since its release to a population which currently numbers just 4.7 million.
Finance: Finance is the science of funds management. The general areas of finance are business finance, personal finance, and public finance. Finance includes saving money and often includes lending money. The field of finance deals with the concepts of time, money and risk and how they are interrelated. It also deals with how money is spent and budgeted. Finance works most basically through individuals and business organizations depositing money in a bank.
Fortran: Fortran (previously FORTRAN) is a general-purpose, procedural, imperative programming language that is especially suited to numeric computation and scientific computing.
FUBAR: FUBAR is an acronym that commonly means "fucked up beyond all repair," "fucked up beyond all recognition," or any of a number of similar constructions. It originated in the United States armed forces, but its usage has spread to colloquial use.
Foobar: The terms foobar, foo, bar, and baz are common placeholder names (also referred to as metasyntactic variables) used in computer programming or computer-related documentation. They are commonly used to represent unknown values, typically when describing a scenario where the purpose of the unknown values is understood, but their precise values are arbitrary and unimportant.
Political freedom: Political freedom is the absence of interference with the sovereignty of an individual by the use of coercion or aggression. Freedom is commonly known as a state of being free from government oppression. The opposite of a free society is a totalitarian state, which highly restricts political freedom in order to regulate almost every aspect of behavior. In this sense freedom refers solely to the relation of humans to other humans, and the only infringement on it is coercion by humans.
Functional analysis: Functional analysis is the branch of mathematics, and specifically of analysis, concerned with the study of vector spaces and operators acting upon them. It has its historical roots in the study of functional spaces, in particular transformations of functions, such as the Fourier transform, as well as in the study of differential and integral equations. This usage of the word functional goes back to the calculus of variations, implying a function whose argument is a function.
Fortaleza: Fortaleza is the state capital of Cear, located in Northeastern Brazil. With a population of over 2.5 million (metropolitan region over 3.4 million), Fortaleza is the 5th largest city in Brazil. It has an area of 313 square kilometres (121 sq mi) and one of the highest demographic densities in the country(8,001 per km).
Funeral: A funeral is a ceremony marking a person's death. Funerary customs comprise the complex of beliefs and practices used by a culture to remember the dead, from the funeral itself, to various monuments, prayers, and rituals undertaken in their honor. These customs vary widely between cultures, and between religious affiliations within cultures. In some cultures the dead are venerated; this is commonly called ancestor worship.
Frank Sinatra: Francis Albert "Frank" Sinatra (December 12, 1915 - May 14, 1998) was an American singer and actor. Beginning his musical career in the swing era with Harry James and Tommy Dorsey, Sinatra became a successful solo artist in the early to mid-1940s, being the idol of the "bobby soxers. " His professional career had stalled by the 1950s, but it was reborn in 1954 after he won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. He signed with Capitol Records and released several critically lauded albums.
Feminism: The term feminism can be used to describe a political, cultural or economic movement aimed at establishing equal rights and legal protection for women. Feminism involves political, cultural and sociological theories, as well as philosophies concerned with issues of gender difference. It is also a movement that advocates gender equality for women and campaigns for women's rights and interests. According to Maggie Humm and Rebecca Walker, the history of feminism can be divided into three waves.
Federal Aviation Administration: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is an agency of the United States Department of Transportation with authority to regulate and oversee all aspects of civil aviation in the U.S.. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 created the group under the name "Federal Aviation Agency", and adopted its current name in 1967 when it became a part of the United States Department of Transportation. The Federal Aviation Administration's major roles include: Regulating U.S.
Francis Fukuyama: Yoshihiro Francis Fukuyama (born 27 October 1952) is an American philosopher, political economist, and author.
Fingerspelling: Fingerspelling (or dactylology) is the representation of the letters of a writing system, and sometimes numeral systems, using only the hands. These manual alphabets (also known as finger alphabets or hand alphabets), have often been used in deaf education, and have subsequently been adopted as a distinct part of a number of sign languages around the world.
French Revolution: The French Revolution (1789-1799) was a period of radical social and political upheaval in French and European history. The absolute monarchy that had ruled France for centuries collapsed in three years. French society underwent an epic transformation as feudal, aristocratic, and religious privileges evaporated under a sustained assault from liberal political groups and the masses on the streets.
Four Weddings and a Funeral: Four Weddings and a Funeral is a 1994 British romantic comedy film directed by Mike Newell. It was the first of several films by screenwriter Richard Curtis to feature Hugh Grant. The film was an unexpected success, becoming the highest-grossing British film in cinema history at the time, with worldwide box office in excess of $240 million, and receiving an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture.
Ferrari: Ferrari S.p.A. is a sports car manufacturer based in Maranello, Italy. Founded by Enzo Ferrari in 1929 as Scuderia Ferrari, the company sponsored drivers and manufactured race cars before moving into production of street-legal vehicles in 1947 as Ferrari S.p.A.. Throughout its history, the company has been noted for its continued participation in racing, especially in Formula One, where it has enjoyed great success.
Frankie Goes to Hollywood: Frankie Goes to Hollywood (FGTH) were an English dance-pop band that was extremely popular in the mid-1980s. The Liverpool group was fronted by Holly Johnson, supported by Paul Rutherford, Peter Gill, Mark O'Toole and Brian Nash.
Freemasonry: Freemasonry is a fraternal organisation that arose from obscure origins in the late 16th to early 17th century. Freemasonry now exists in various forms all over the world, with a membership estimated at around five million, including just under two million in the United States and around 480,000 in England, Scotland and Ireland. The various forms all share moral and metaphysical ideals, which include, in most cases, a constitutional declaration of belief in a Supreme Being.
Fulham F.C.: Fulham Football Club is an English professional football club based in Fulham, in the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham. Founded in 1879, they celebrated their 125th anniversary in 2004, and are in the top tier of English football, the Premier League. Fulham are the oldest professional football team in London, usually considered to have been founded in 1879 (though the semi-professional Cray Wanderers are the oldest team in London still in existence).
Fart: Fart is an English language vulgarism most commonly used in reference to flatulence. The word "fart" is generally considered unsuitable in a formal environment by modern English speakers, and it may be considered vulgar or offensive in some situations. Fart can be used as a noun or a verb. The immediate roots are in the Middle English words ferten, feortan or farten; which is akin to the Old High German word ferzan. Cognates are found in old Norse, Slavic and also Greek and Sanskrit.
Fort Wayne Indiana: Fort Wayne is a city in the U.S. state of Indiana and the county seat of Allen County. As of 2008, the city had an estimated population of 251,591, ranking it the 73 largest city in the nation. It is the second largest city in Indiana, after Indianapolis. The municipality is located in northeastern Indiana, approximately 20 miles (32 km) west of the Ohio border and 50 miles (80 km) south of the Michigan border.
FA Cup: The Football Association Challenge Cup, commonly known as the FA Cup, is a knockout cup competition in English football, run by and named after The Football Association. The name "FA Cup" usually refers to the English men's tournament, although a women's tournament is also held. Its current sponsored name is the FA Cup sponsored by E. ON. The FA Cup was first held in 1871-72, and is the oldest association football competition in the world.
Factors of production: The neutrality of the style of writing in this article is questioned. Please see the discussion on the talk page. In economics, factors of production (or productive inputs) are the resources employed to produce goods and services. They facilitate production but do not become part of the product or become significantly transformed by the production process (as with fuel used to power machinery).
Filter: Filter may refer to:
Flatulence: Flatulence is the expulsion through the rectum of a mixture of gases that are byproducts of the digestion process of mammals and other animals. The mixture of gases is known as flatus, (informally) fart, or simply gas, and is expelled from the rectum in a process colloquially referred to as "passing gas" or "farting". Flatus is brought to the rectum by the same peristaltic process which causes feces to descend from the large intestine.
Free Methodist Church: The Free Methodist Church is a Methodist religious denomination that is a part of the holiness movement. It is evangelical in nature and has its roots in the Arminian-Wesleyan tradition. The Free Methodist Church has nearly 732,000 members worldwide in 82 nations. Light & Life magazine is the official publication. The Free Methodist Church World Ministries Center is in Indianapolis, Indiana.
Fixed point: "Fixed point" has many meanings in science, most of them mathematical. Fixed point (mathematics) Fixed point combinator Fixed-point arithmetic, a manner of doing arithmetic on computers Benchmark (surveying), fixed points used by geodesists For fixed points in physics, see Renormalization group Fixed points are necessary for a watercraft to be moored to a quay.
Falstaff: Sir John Falstaff is a fictional character who appears in three plays by William Shakespeare as a companion to Prince Hal, the future King Henry V. A fat, vainglorious, and cowardly knight, Falstaff leads the apparently wayward Prince Hal into trouble, and is ultimately repudiated after Hal becomes king.
Fenway Park: Fenway Park is a baseball park near Kenmore Square in Boston, Massachusetts, USA. Located at 4 Yawkey Way, it has served as the home ballpark of the Boston Red Sox baseball club since it opened in 1912, and is the oldest Major League Baseball stadium currently in use. It is the only one of the original standards ballparks that is still in use. It is also the oldest venue used by a professional sports team in the United States.
Floorball: Floorball, a type of floor hockey, is an indoor team sport which was developed in the 1970s. It is a fast paced sport, with limited physical contact allowed. Floorball is most popular in areas where the sport has developed the longest, such as the Czech Republic, Finland, Sweden and Switzerland. The game is played indoors on a gym floor, making it a year-round sport at the amateur and professional levels.
Premier League: The Premier League is an English professional league for association football clubs. At the top of the English football league system, it is the country's primary football competition. Contested by 20 clubs, it operates on a system of promotion and relegation with The Football League. The Premier League is a corporation in which the 20 member clubs act as shareholders. Seasons run from August to May, with teams playing 38 games each totalling 380 games in the season.
Fine Gael: Fine Gael - The United Ireland Party, more commonly known as Fine Gael (meaning Family of the Irish or Tribe of the Irish) is the second largest political party in Ireland in terms of parliamentary seat numbers, the largest in terms of support according to all recent opinion polls, and the largest in terms of local government members and members of the European Parliament. It has the largest representation in terms of local council seats ahead of all other parties in the state.
Fu Manchu: Dr. Fu Manchu is a fictional character first featured in a series of novels by English author Sax Rohmer during the first half of the 20th century. The character was also featured extensively in cinema, television, radio, comic strips and comic books for over 90 years, and has become an archetype of the evil criminal genius while inspiring the Fu Manchu moustache.
Feminist science fiction: Feminist science fiction is a sub-genre of science fiction which tends to deal with women's roles in society. Feminist science fiction poses questions about social issues such as how society constructs gender roles, the role reproduction plays in defining gender and the unequal political and personal power of men and women.
Fellatio: Fellatio, also called fellation, is oral sex performed upon the penis. It may be performed to induce orgasm and ejaculation of semen, or it can be used as foreplay prior to vaginal or anal forms of intercourse. Fellatio is commonly referred to as a blowjob. Fellatio is also sometimes referred to as "giving head" or "going down. " Other terms include "sucking dick" and "sucking off."
Friesland: Friesland is a province in the north of the Netherlands. Up until the end of 1996, the province bore Friesland as its official name. In 1997 this Dutch name lost its official status to the Frisian Frysl. Nevertheless "Friesland" is still commonly used by Dutch speaking people, being the Dutch translation of the official name. Friesland has 643,000 inhabitants (2005) and its capital is Leeuwarden (Ljouwert), with 91,817 inhabitants, in the center of the province.
Fatw: A fatw in the Islamic faith is a religious opinion concerning Islamic law issued by an Islamic scholar. In Sunni Islam any fatwa is non-binding, whereas in Shia Islam it could be considered by an individual as binding, depending on his or her relation to the scholar. The person who issues a fatwa is called, in that respect, a Mufti, i.e. an issuer of fatwa.
Relax song: "Relax" is the debut single by British dance group Frankie Goes to Hollywood, released in the UK by ZTT Records in 1983. The song was later included on the album Welcome to the Pleasuredome (1984). Although fairly inauspicious upon initial release, "Relax" finally reached number one in the UK singles chart on 24 January 1984, ultimately becoming one of the most controversial and most commercially successful records of the entire decade.
Two Tribes: "Two Tribes" is the second single by Frankie Goes to Hollywood, released in the UK by ZTT Records in May 1984. The song was later included on the album Welcome to the Pleasuredome. The single was a phenomenal success in the UK, staying at the top of the singles chart for nine consecutive weeks, during which time the group's previous single "Relax" climbed back up the charts to number two. The single was unable to repeat this success in the USA, where it peaked at number 43.
Rage Hard: "Rage Hard" is the fifth single by Frankie Goes to Hollywood. It was released in August 1986.
Liverpool album: Liverpool is Frankie Goes to Hollywood's second album, released in October 1986. The album was a commercial disappointment compared to the band's previous effort, charting generally low at #5. It did, however, hit #7 on the Austrian and Swiss music charts and #8 in Norway. The cover photo was different depending on what format was purchased (LP, cassette, or compact disc).
Welcome to the Pleasuredome song: "Welcome to the Pleasuredome" is the title track to the 1984 debut album by Frankie Goes to Hollywood. The lyrics of the song were inspired by the poem Kubla Khan by Samuel Taylor Coleridge. In March 1985, the album track was substantially abridged and remixed for release as the group's fourth UK single.
The Fast Show: The Fast Show, known as Brilliant in the US, was a BBC comedy sketch show programme that ran for three series from 1994 to 1997 with a special Last Fast Show Ever in 2000. The show's central performers were Paul Whitehouse, Charlie Higson, Simon Day, Mark Williams, John Thomson, Arabella Weir and Caroline Aherne. Other significant cast members included Paul Shearer, Felix Dexter, Rhys Thomas, Jeff Harding, Maria McErlane, Eryl Maynard, Colin McFarlane and Donna Ewin.
Faroese language: Faroese, often also spelled Faeroese (cf. Merriam-Webster, which prefers this spelling), is a West Nordic or West Scandinavian language spoken by 48,000 people in the Faroe Islands and about 25,000 Faroese in Denmark and elsewhere. It is one of three insular Scandinavian languages descended from the Old Norse language spoken in Scandinavia in the Viking Age, the others being Icelandic and the extinct Norn, which is thought to have been mutually intelligible with Faroese.
Elementary particle: In particle physics, an elementary particle or fundamental particle is a not known to have substructure; that is, it is not known to be made up of smaller particles. If an elementary particle truly has no substructure, then it is one of the basic building blocks of the universe from which all other particles are made. In the Standard Model, the quarks, leptons, and gauge bosons are elementary particles.
Florida Marlins: The Florida Marlins are a professional baseball team based in Miami, Florida. Established in 1993 as an expansion franchise, the Marlins are a member of the Eastern Division of Major League Baseball's National League. The Marlins play their home games at Sun Life Stadium, also home to the Miami Dolphins and the Miami Hurricanes. The Marlins are notable for winning the World Series twice, in the only two times they've made it to the postseason.
Frontline Australian TV series: Frontline is an Australian comedy television series which satirised Australian television current affairs programmes and reporting. It rolled for three series of 13 and a half episodes and was broadcast on ABC TV in 1994, 1995 and 1997.
Fr d ric Bastiat: Claude Fric Bastiat (30 June 1801 - 24 December 1850) was a French classical liberal theorist, political economist, and member of the French assembly.
Falsifiability: Falsifiability or refutability is the logical possibility that an assertion can be shown false by an observation or a physical experiment. That something is "falsifiable" does not mean it is false; rather, that if it is false, then this can be shown by observation or experiment. The term "testability" is related but more specific; it means that an assertion can be falsified through experimentation alone.
Freikorps: The designation of Freikorps was originally applied to voluntary armies formed in German lands from the middle of the 18th century onwards. After World War I the term was used for the paramilitary organizations that sprang up around Weimar Germany and fought both for and against the state.
Francisco I. Madero: Francisco Indalecio Madero Gonzez (October 30, 1873 - February 22, 1913) was a politician, writer and revolutionary who served as President of Mexico from 1911 to 1913. As a respectable upper-class politician he supplied a center around which opposition to the dictatorship of Porfirio Daz could coalesce. However, once Daz was deposed, the Mexican Revolution quickly spun out of Madero's control.
Fruitarianism: Fruitarianism is the practice endorsed by people called fruitarians or fructarians of following a diet that comprises fruits, nuts and seeds, without animal products, vegetables and grains. Fruitarianism is a subset of veganism. Some people whose diet is not 100% fruit consider themselves fruitarian if their diet is 75% or more fruit.
Foreign relations of Afghanistan: The foreign relations of Afghanistan, like those of any country, have changed along with the political, sociological, and economic state of the various parts of Afghanistan.
Felony: A felony is a serious crime in the United States and previously other common law countries. The term originates from English common law where felonies were originally crimes which involved the confiscation of a convicted person's land and goods; other crimes were called misdemeanors. Most common law countries have now abolished the felony/misdemeanor distinction and replaced it with other distinctions such as between summary offences and indictable offences.
First aid: First aid is the provision of initial care for an illness or injury. It is usually performed by a lay person to a sick or injured casualty until definitive medical treatment can be accessed. Certain self-limiting illnesses or minor injuries may not require further medical care past the first aid intervention. It generally consists of a series of simple and in some cases, potentially life-saving techniques that an individual can be trained to perform with minimal equipment.
Fox: Fox is a common name for many species of carnivorous mammals belonging to the Canidae family. Foxes are small to medium-sized canids (slightly smaller than the median-sized domestic dog), characterized by possessing a long narrow snout, and a bushy tail (or brush). Members of about 37 species are referred to as foxes, of which only 12 species actually belong to the Vulpes genus of 'true foxes'.
Feudalism: Feudalism is a decentralized sociopolitical structure in which a weak monarchy attempts to control the lands of the realm through reciprocal agreements with regional leaders. In its most classic sense, feudalism refers to the Medieval European political system composed of a set of reciprocal legal and military obligations among the warrior nobility, revolving around the three key concepts of lords, vassals, and fiefs.
Foundationalism: Foundationalism is any theory in epistemology that holds that beliefs are justified (known, etc. ) based on what are called basic beliefs (also commonly called foundational beliefs). Basic beliefs are beliefs that give justificatory support to other beliefs, and more derivative beliefs are based on those more basic beliefs. The basic beliefs are said to be self-justifying or self-evident, that is, they enjoy a non-inferential warrant (or justification), i.e.
Fusion cuisine: Fusion cuisine combines elements of various culinary traditions while not fitting specifically into any. The term generally refers to the innovations in many contemporary restaurant cuisines since the 1970s.
Felidae: Felidae is the biological family of the cats; a member of this family is called a felid or feline. Felids are the strictest carnivores of the sixteen mammal families in the order Carnivora. The most familiar felid is the domestic cat, which first became associated with humans about 10,000 years ago, but the family includes all other wild cats including the big cats. Extant felids belong to one of two subfamilies: Pantherinae, and Felinae.
Folklore: Folklore culture, including stories, music, dance, legends, oral history, proverbs, jokes, popular beliefs, customs, and so forth within a particular population comprising the traditions of that culture, subculture, or group. It is also the set of practices through which those expressive genres are shared. The academic and usually ethnographic study of folklore is sometimes called folkloristics.
Frame problem: In artificial intelligence, the frame problem was initially formulated as the problem of expressing a dynamical domain in logic without explicitly specifying which conditions are not affected by an action. John McCarthy and Patrick J. Hayes defined this problem in their 1969 article, Some Philosophical Problems from the Standpoint of Artificial Intelligence.
Flambards: Flambards is a novel by the English author K. M. Peyton. The book and its three sequels are set just before, during, and after World War I. The first book, originally published in 1967, tells how the teenage heroine, orphaned heiress Christina Parsons, comes to live at Flambards, the impoverished Essex estate owned by her crippled and tyrannical uncle, William Russell, and his two sons, Mark and Will.
Frans Eemil Sillanp: Sillanp redirects here. For other meanings, see Sillanp. Frans Eemil Sillanp (September 16, 1888June 3, 1964) was one of the most famous Finnish writers. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1939 "for his deep understanding of his country's peasantry and the exquisite art with which he has portrayed their way of life and their relationship with Nature. " Frans Eemil Sillanp was born into a peasant family in Heenkyr.
Father Ted: Father Ted was a situation comedy television program produced by the British television company Hat Trick Productions which first ran from 1995 to 1998 on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom. It starred Dermot Morgan in the title role as the Irish Catholic priest Father Ted Crilly, and was set on the remote fictional Craggy Island parish off the west coast of Ireland.
Friends: Friends is an American sitcom created by David Crane and Marta Kauffman, which ran on NBC from September 22, 1994 to May 6, 2004. The series revolves around a group of friends in the area of Manhattan, New York City. The series was produced by Bright/Kauffman/Crane Productions, in association with Warner Bros. Television. The original executive producers were Crane, Kauffman and Kevin Bright, with numerous others being promoted in later seasons.
Foster's Lager: Foster's Lager is an internationally distributed Australian brand of 4.9% abv pale lager. It is a product of Foster's Group brewed under licence in several countries, including the United States, and Russia. The European rights to the beer are owned by Heineken International, who brew and distribute Foster's in most European countries including: the United Kingdom, Canada, Greece, France, Belgium, Portugal, Poland, Finland, Germany, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine and Ireland.
FBI Most Wanted Terrorists: The Federal Bureau of Investigation's Most Wanted Terrorists is a list of fugitives who have been indicted by sitting Federal grand juries in the United States district courts, for alleged crimes of terrorism. The initial list was formed in late 2001 in the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks and contained the names of 22 terrorists. It was the second major "wanted" list following the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list.
Frankish disambiguation: The adjective Frankish refers to: the Franks Francia the Frankish language Crusaders
Francis Bacon: Francis Bacon, 1st and Only Viscount of St. Alban, KC (22 January 1561 - 9 April 1626) was an English philosopher, statesman, scientist, lawyer, jurist and author. He served both as Attorney General and Lord Chancellor of England. Although his political career ended in disgrace, he remained extremely influential through his works, especially as philosophical advocate and practitioner of the scientific revolution.
Free On-line Dictionary of Computing: The Free On-line Dictionary of Computing (FOLDOC) is an online, searchable, encyclopedic dictionary of computing subjects. It was founded in 1985 by Denis Howe and is hosted by Imperial College London. Howe has served as the editor-in-chief since the dictionary's inception, with visitors to the website able to make suggestions for additions or corrections to articles.
Snap football: A snap (colloquially called a "hike", "snapback", or "pass from center") starts each American football and Canadian football play from scrimmage.
First-order predicate: A first-order predicate (also called a monad) is a predicate that takes only individual(s) constants or variables as argument(s). Compare second-order predicate and higher-order predicate.
Firewire disambiguation: Firewire may refer to: FireWire - Apple's trademark for the IEEE 1394 interface Firewire - an album by jazz guitarist Larry Carlton
FIFO: FIFO is an acronym for First In, First Out, an abstraction in ways of organizing and manipulation of data relative to time and prioritization. This expression describes the principle of a queue processing technique or servicing conflicting demands by ordering process by first-come, first-served (FCFS) behaviour: what comes in first is handled first, what comes in next waits until the first is finished, etc.
Firewall construction: Image:Brandwand 2. jpg|Firewall residential construction, separating the building into two separate residential units, and fire areas. Image:Brandwand 3. jpg|Firewall, as seen on the inside of a newly constructed townhouse unit, showing how the firewall goes past the roofline. A firewall is a fire-resistance rated wall assembly intended to slow the spread of fire from one side to the other, and are certification listed.
Field-effect transistor: The field-effect transistor (FET) relies on an electric field to control the shape and hence the conductivity of a channel of one type of charge carrier in a semiconductor material. FETs are sometimes called unipolar transistors to contrast their single-carrier-type operation with the dual-carrier-type operation of bipolar (junction) transistors (BJT).
Frigg: Frigg (sometimes anglicized as Frigga) is a major goddess in Norse paganism, a subset of Germanic paganism. She is said to be the wife of Odin, and is the "foremost among the goddesses" and the queen of Asgard. Frigg appears primarily in Norse mythological stories as a wife and a mother. She is also described as having the power of prophecy yet she does not reveal what she knows.
Felix Wankel: Felix Heinrich Wankel (August 13, 1902 - October 9, 1988) was a German mechanical engineer and inventor after whom the Wankel engine was named.
Fenrir disambiguation: Fenrisulfr, Fenrir or Fenris is a Norse mythological wolf. Fenrir or Fenris may also refer to: Fenrir (moon), a moon of Saturn named after Fenrisulfr Fenris - Inner Sphere designation of a Medium-class Clan Battlemech in the science-fiction series Battletech Fenrir is a monster card in the Yu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card Game In printed media: Fenris Ulf, or Maugrim, a character in C.S.
Floor leader: Floor Leaders are leaders of their political parties in each of the houses of the legislature.
Fabio Taglioni: Fabio Taglioni (September 10, 1920 - July 18, 2001) was an Italian engineer. Born in Lugo di Romagna, he was chief designer and technical director of Ducati from 1954 until 1989. His desmodromic L-twin design is still used in all current Ducati motorcycle engines. Among the many race victories of his early desmo twin, the 1978 legendary return of Mike Hailwood at the Isle of Man is perhaps the most memorable.
Frank Capra: Frank Russell Capra (May 18, 1897 - September 3, 1991) was a Sicilian-born American film director and a creative force behind a number of films of the 1930s and 1940s, including It Happened One Night (1934), Mr. Deeds Goes to Town (1936), Lost Horizon (1937), You Can't Take It With You (1938), Mr. Smith Goes to Washington (1939), Meet John Doe (1941), Arsenic and Old Lace (1944) and It's a Wonderful Life (1946).
FIFA World Cup: The FIFA World Cup, occasionally called the Football World Cup, but usually referred to simply as the World Cup, is an international football competition contested by the men's national teams of the members of Fation Internationale de Football Association, the sport's global governing body. The championship has been awarded every four years since the first tournament in 1930, except in 1942 and 1946 when it was not contested because of World War II.
Fabius Maximus: Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus Cunctator (ca. 280 BC-203 BC), was a Roman politician and general, born in Rome around 280 BC and died in Rome in 203 BC. He was Roman Consul five times (233 BC, 228 BC, 215 BC, 214 BC and 209 BC) and was twice Dictator in 221 and again in 217 BC. He reached the office of Roman Censor in 230 BC. His agnomen Cunctator means "delayer" in Latin, and refers to his tactics in deploying the troops during the Second Punic War.
Fourth-generation programming language: A fourth-generation programming language (1970s-1990) (abbreviated 4GL) is a programming language or programming environment designed with a specific purpose in mind, such as the development of commercial business software. In the evolution of computing, the 4GL followed the 3GL in an upward trend toward higher abstraction and statement power. The 4GL was followed by efforts to define and use a 5GL.
First Epistle to the Corinthians: The First Epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, usually referred to simply as First Corinthians and often written 1 Corinthians, is the seventh book of the New Testament. The book, originally written in Greek, was a letter from Paul of Tarsus and Sosthenes to the Christians of Corinth, Greece.
Floating point: In computing, floating point describes a system for representing numbers that would be too large or too small to be represented as integers. Numbers are in general represented approximately to a fixed number of significant digits and scaled using an exponent. The base for the scaling is normally 2, 10 or 16.
List of Scots: List of Scots is an incomplete list of notable people born in Scotland.
File viewer: A file viewer is application software that displays data stored in a computer file in a human-friendly form. The file contents are displayed on the screen, or they may be printed. Also, they may be read aloud using speech synthesis.
List of South Africans: This is a list of notable South Africans with Wikipedia articles.
File manager: A file manager or file browser is a computer program that provides a user interface to work with file systems. The most common operations used are create, open, edit, view, print, play, rename, move, copy, delete, attributes, properties, search/find, and permissions. Files are typically displayed in a hierarchy. Some file managers contain features inspired by web browsers, including forward and back navigational buttons.
First Epistle of Peter: The First Epistle of Peter, usually referred to simply as First Peter and often written 1 Peter, is a book of the New Testament. It has traditionally been held to have been written by Saint Peter the apostle during his time as bishop of Rome or Bishop of Antioch, though neither titles are used in the epistle. The letter is addressed to various churches in Asia Minor suffering religious persecution.
First Epistle of John: The First Epistle of John, usually referred to simply as First John and often written 1 John, is a book of the New Testament. This fourth catholic or "general" epistle is attributed to John the Evangelist, traditionally thought to be the author of the Gospel of John and the other two epistles of John. This Epistle was written in Ephesus between the years 100-110. The work was written to counter the heresies that Jesus did not come "in the flesh," but only as a spirit.
First Vatican Council: The First Vatican Council was convoked by Pope Pius IX on 29 June 1868, after a period of planning and preparation that began on 6 December 1864. This twentieth ecumenical council of the Roman Catholic Church, held three centuries after the Council of Trent, opened on 8 December 1869 and adjourned on 20 October 1870.
First Council of the Lateran: The Council of 1123 is reckoned in the series of Ecumenical councils by the Catholic Church. It was convoked by Pope Callixtus II in December, 1122, immediately after the Concordat of Worms.
French Republican Calendar: The French Republican Calendar or French Revolutionary Calendar was a calendar proposed during the French Revolution, and used by the French government for about 12 years from late 1793 to 1805, and for 18 days in 1871 in Paris.
Four Noble Truths: The Four Noble Truths (or The Four Ennobling Truths,The Four Truths of the Noble Ones) is one of the most fundamental Buddhist teachings. In broad terms, these truths relate to suffering, its nature, its origin, its cessation and the path leading to its cessation. They are among the truths Siddhartha Gautama is said to have realized during his experience of enlightenment. The Four Noble Truths appear many times, throughout the most ancient Buddhist texts, the Pali Canon.
Freeman Dyson: Freeman John Dyson FRS (born December 15, 1923) is a British-born American theoretical physicist and mathematician, famous for his work in quantum field theory, solid-state physics, and nuclear engineering. Dyson is a member of the Board of Sponsors of The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. Dyson has lived in Princeton, New Jersey for over fifty years.
Fourth Council of the Lateran: The Fourth Council of the Lateran was convoked by Pope Innocent III with the papal bull of April 19, 1213, and the Council gathered in November of 1215. Due to the great length of time between the Council's convocation and meeting, a great many bishops had the opportunity to attend.
FileMan: FileMan is a set of utilities written by George Timson in the late 1970s and early 1980s, using MUMPS, which provide a meta-data function for MUMPS applications. The FileMan utilities allow the definition of data structures, menus and security, reports, and forms, allowing someone to set up applications without tremendous experience in the MUMPS programming language. FileMan was designed to support the complex information storage and processing needs of hospitals.
FC Den Bosch: FC Den Bosch is a football club from 's-Hertogenbosch, Netherlands. It was founded August 18, 1965 as FC Den Bosch/BVV. It is the successor of BVV (1906) and Wilhelmina (1890). Its stadium is called 'De Vliert', a 9,000 all-seater. Ruud van Nistelrooy started his professional career at this club. In 2005 they finished bottom of the Eredivisie and were relegated.
Franconia: Franconia is a region of Germany comprising the northern parts of the modern state of Bavaria, a small part of southern Thuringia, and a region in northeastern Baden-Wrttemberg called Heilbronn-Franken. The Bavarian part is made up of the administrative regions of Lower Franconia (Unterfranken), Middle Franconia (Mittelfranken), and Upper Franconia (Oberfranken). Franconia is named after the Germanic tribe of the Franks.
United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court: The United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (or FISC) is a U.S. federal court authorized under 50 U.S.C. 1803. It was established by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA). The FISC oversees requests for surveillance warrants against suspected foreign intelligence agents inside the United States by federal police agencies. The FISA and FISC were inspired by the recommendations of the Church Committee.
Fermentation: Fermentation may refer to: the or Fermentation (biochemistry) is a metabolic process whereby electrons released from nutrients are ultimately transferred to molecules obtained from the breakdown of those same nutrients. Fermentative hydrogen production Industrial fermentation,and the breakdown and re-assembly of biochemicals for industry, often in aerobic growth conditions.
Female genital cutting: Female genital cutting (FGC), also known as female genital mutilation (FGM), female genital mutilation/cutting (FGM/C), or female circumcision, is any procedure involving the partial or total removal of the external female genitalia or other injury to the female genital organs "whether for cultural, religious or other non-therapeutic reasons.
Forcemeat: Forcemeat is a mixture of ground, lean meat emulsified with fat. The emulsification can be accomplished by either grinding, sieving, or pureeing the ingredients. The emulsification may either be smooth or coarse, depending on the desired consistency of the final product. Forcemeats are used in the production of numerous items found in charcuterie, such items include quenelles, sausages, p, terrines, roulades, and galantines.
Forseti: Forseti is the ir god of justice, peace and truth in Norse mythology. Fosite is a god of the Frisians often identified with Scandinavian Forseti. So Jacob Grimm, Teutonic Mythology, who takes forseti "praeses" as the original meaning, postulating an (unattested) Old High German equivalent forasizo (cf. modern German Vorsitzender "one who presides").
Father Dougal McGuire: Father Dougal McGuire was a fictional character on the Channel 4 sitcom Father Ted. He was played by Ardal O'Hanlon.
Fiorello La Guardia: Fiorello Henry La Guardia (born Fiorello Enrico La Guardia; December 11, 1882 - September 20, 1947) was Mayor of New York for three terms from 1934 to 1945. He was popularly known as "the Little Flower", the translation of his Italian first name, Fiorello, and, most likely, a reference to his short stature. A Republican, he was a popular mayor and a strong supporter of the New Deal.
Flores: Flores is one of the Lesser Sunda Islands, an island arc with an estimated area of 14,300 km extending east from the Java island of Indonesia. The population is estimated to be around 1.5 million, and the largest town is Maumere. Flores is located east of Sumbawa and Komodo and west of Lembata and the Alor Archipelago. To the southeast is Timor. To the south, across the Sumba strait, is Sumba and to the north, beyond the Flores Sea, is Sulawesi.
First Punic War: The First Punic War (264 to 241 BC) was the first of three major wars fought between the Empire of Carthage and the Roman Republic. For 23 years, the two powers struggled for supremacy in the western Mediterranean Sea. Carthage, located in what is today Tunisia, was the dominant Western Mediterranean power at the beginning of the conflicts. Eventually, Rome emerged the victor, imposing strict treaty conditions and heavy financial penalties against Carthage.
Fernando Pessoa: Fernando Antio Nogueira de Seabra Pessoa (b. June 13, 1888 in Lisbon, Portugal d. November 30, 1935 in the same city at the Hospital of S Lus) was a Portuguese poet and writer. He was also a literary critic and translator. The critic Harold Bloom referred to him in the book The Western Canon as the most representative poet of the twentieth century, along with Pablo Neruda. He was bilingual in Portuguese and English, and fluent in French.
Flag: A flag is a piece of fabric, often flown from a pole or mast, generally used symbolically for signaling or identification. It is most commonly used to symbolize a country. The term flag is also used to refer to the graphic design employed by a flag, or to its depiction in another medium.
Full moon: Full moon is a lunar phase that occurs when the Moon is on the opposite side of the Earth from the Sun. More precisely, a full moon occurs when the geocentric apparent longitudes of the Sun and Moon differ by 180 degrees; the Moon is then in opposition with the Sun. As seen from Earth, the hemisphere of the Moon that is facing the earth is almost fully illuminated by the Sun and appears round.
Film format: A film format is a technical definition of a set of standard characteristics regarding image capture on photographic film, for either stills or movies. It can also apply to projected film, either slides or movies. The primary characteristic of a film format is its size and shape. In the case of motion picture film, the format may also include audio parameters (though often not).
Faster-than-light: Faster-than-light (also superluminal or FTL) communications and travel refer to the propagation of information or matter faster than the speed of light. Under the special theory of relativity, a particle (that has mass) with subluminal velocity needs infinite energy to accelerate to the speed of light, although special relativity does not forbid the existence of particles that travel faster than light at all times.
False document: A false document is a literary technique employed to create verisimilitude in a work of fiction. By inventing and inserting documents that appear to be factual, an author tries to create a sense of authenticity beyond the normal and expected suspension of disbelief for a work of art. The goal of a false document is to fool an audience into thinking that what is being presented is actually a fact.
FTL: FTL is an acronym that may refer to: Faster-than-light, a speculative concept in physics and science fiction Faster Than Light (software publisher), a British video games company FTL (Battlestar Galactica), faster-than-light travel as used specifically in Battlestar Galactica FTL Games, the video game development division of Software Heaven Inc.
Falsification: Falsification may mean: The act of disproving a proposition, hypothesis, or theory. Forgery, the act of producing something that lacks authenticity with the intent to commit fraud or deception cpuinfo falsification, a lowest common denominator technique to provide backwards compatibility in computing Self-falsification, i.e. liar paradox
Fatherland: Fatherland is the nation of one's "fathers", "forefathers" or "patriarchs". It can be viewed as a nationalist concept, insofar as it relates to nations.
Flag of the United States: The national flag of the United States of America (the American flag) consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the canton bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows of six stars (top and bottom) alternating with rows of five stars.
FidoNet: FidoNet is a worldwide computer network that is used for communication between bulletin board systems. It was most popular in the early 1990s, prior to the introduction of easy and affordable access to the Internet. The network continues to operate but has shrunk considerably, primarily due to the closing of many BBSes.
Frederick William I Elector of Brandenburg: Frederick William (February 16, 1620 - April 29, 1688) was the Elector of Brandenburg and the Duke of Prussia from 1640 until his death. He was of the House of Hohenzollern and is popularly known as the Great Elector (Der Groe Kurfrst) because of his military and political skill. Frederick William was also a staunch pillar of the Calvinist faith, associated with the rising commercial class. He saw the importance of trade and promoted it vigorously.
Federated States of Micronesia: The Federated States of Micronesia /makroi/ is an island nation located in the Pacific Ocean, north of New Guinea. It is a sovereign state in free association with the United States. The Federated States of Micronesia were formerly part of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, a United Nations Trust Territory under U.S. administration. In 1979 they adopted a constitution, and in 1986 independence was attained under a Compact of Free Association with the United States.
Fra Bartolomeo: Fra Bartolomeo or Fra Bartolommeo (di Pagholo) (March 28, 1472 - October 6, 1517), also known as Baccio della Porta, was an Italian Renaissance painter of religious subjects.
Fra Angelico: Fra Angelico (c. 1395 - February 18, 1455), born Guido di Pietro, was an Early Italian Renaissance painter, referred to in Vasari's Lives of the Artists as having "a rare and perfect talent". Known in Italy as il Beato Angelico, he was known to his contemporaries as Fra Giovanni da Fiesole (Brother John from Fiesole). In Giorgio Vasari's Lives of the Artists, written prior to 1555, he was already known as Fra Giovanni Angelico (Brother Giovanni the Angelic One).
Fr d ric Bazille: Jean Fric Bazille (December 6, 1841 - November 28, 1870) was a French Impressionist painter whose major works often foreground the figure within a landscape painted en plein air.
Ford Madox Brown: Ford Madox Brown (16 April 1821 - 6 October 1893) was an English painter of moral and historical subjects, notable for his distinctively graphic and often Hogarthian version of the Pre-Raphaelite style.
Horn instrument: The horn is a brass instrument consisting of about 12 feet (3.7 m) of tubing wrapped into a coil with a flared bell. A musician who plays the horn is called a horn player (or less frequently, a hornist). Descended from the natural horn, the instrument is informally known as the French horn, but since 1971 the International Horn Society has recommended the horn. Horns have valves, operated with the left hand, to route the air into extra tubing to change the pitch.
Francis van Aarssens: Baron Francis van Aarssens or Baron Franis van Aerssen (27 September 1572, Brussels - 27 December 1641, The Hague), from 1611 on lord of Sommelsdijk, was a diplomat and statesman of the United Provinces. He was son of Cornelis van Aarsens, also a statesman. His talents commended him to the notice of Advocate Johan van Oldenbarnevelt, who sent him, at the age of 26 years, as a diplomatic agent of the states-general to the court of France.
Francis Crick: Francis Harry Compton Crick OM FRS (8 June 1916 - 28 July 2004), was a British molecular biologist, physicist, and neuroscientist, and most noted for being one of two co-discoverers of the structure of the DNA molecule in 1953, together with James D. Watson. He, James D.
Frigate: A frigate is a warship. The term has been used for warships of many sizes and roles over the past few centuries. In the 17th century, the term was used for any warship built for speed and maneuverability, the description often used being "frigate-built". These could be warships carrying their principal battery of carriage-mounted guns on a single deck or on two decks (with further smaller carriage-mounted guns usually carried on the forecastle and quarterdeck of the vessel).
Francisco Franco: Francisco Franco Bahamonde (4 December 1892 in Ferrol - 20 November 1975 in Madrid), commonly known as Francisco Franco, or simply Franco, was a military general, and head of state of Spain from October 1936 (whole country from 1939 on), and de facto regent of the nominally restored Kingdom of Spain from 1947 until his death in November 1975. As head of state, Franco used the title Caudillo de Espa, por la gracia de Dios, meaning; Leader of Spain, by the grace of God.
Frederick III Holy Roman Emperor: Frederick or Friedrich of Habsburg (September 21, 1415 - August 19, 1493) was Duke of Austria as Frederick V since 1424, successor of Albert II as German King as Frederick IV since 1440, and Holy Roman Emperor as Frederick III since 1452. He was succeeded by his son Maximilian I in 1493 after ten years of joint rule.
Flash Crowd: "Flash Crowd" is a 1973 English language novella by science fiction author Larry Niven, one of a series about the social consequence of inventing an instantaneous, practically free transfer booth that could take one anywhere on Earth in milliseconds.
Fuerteventura: Fuerteventura, a Spanish island, is one of the Canary Islands, in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Africa. It is situated at 2820' north, 1400' west. At 1,660 km it is also the second largest of the islands.
Fairmount Indiana: Fairmount is a town in Fairmount Township, Grant County in east central Indiana. The population was 2,866 at the 2006 census. It is ninety kilometers (fifty-five miles) northeast of Indianapolis. Largely a bedroom community to its three thousand citizens, Fairmount is best known as the boyhood home of actor James Dean, who is buried there.
Epistles to the Thessalonians: There are two Epistles to the Thessalonians in the Bible: First Epistle to the Thessalonians Second Epistle to the Thessalonians
Friedrich August Kekul von Stradonitz: Friedrich August Kekule von Stradonitz (also August Kekul) (7 September 1829 - 13 July 1896) was a German organic chemist. One of the most prominent chemists in Europe from the 1850s until his death, especially in the theoretical realm, he was the principal founder of the theory of chemical structure.
Free verse: Free verse is a form of poetry which refrains from meter patterns, rhyme, or any other musical pattern. Some poets have explained that free verse, despite its freedom, must still display some elements of form. Pound's friend, T. S. Eliot wrote: "No verse is free for the man who wants to do a good job. " Donald Hall goes as far as to say that "the form of free verse is as binding and as liberating as the form of a rondeau. " Some poets have considered free verse restrictive in its own way.
Frederik Willem de Klerk: Frederik Willem de Klerk (born 18 March 1936), often known as F. W. de Klerk, was the seventh and last State President of apartheid-era South Africa, serving from September 1989 to May 1994. De Klerk was also leader of the National Party (which later became the New National Party) from February 1989 to September 1997.
Furlong: A furlong is a measure of distance in imperial units and U.S. customary units. It is equal to one-eighth of a mile, 220 yards, 660 feet, 201.168 meters, or 10 chains. Five furlongs are approximately 1 kilometer (1.00584 km to be exact).
Fundamental frequency: The fundamental tone, often referred to simply as the fundamental and abbreviated f0 or F0, is the lowest frequency in a harmonic series. The fundamental frequency of a periodic signal is the inverse of the period length. The period is, in turn, the smallest repeating unit of a signal. One period thus describes the periodic signal completely.
Foot: The foot is an anatomical structure found in many vertebrates. It is the terminal portion of a limb which bears weight and allows locomotion. In many animals with feet, the foot is a separate organ at the terminal part of the leg made up of one or more segments or bones, generally including claws or nails.
Fable: A fable is a succinct story, in prose or verse, that features animals, plants, inanimate objects, or forces of nature which are anthropomorphized, and that illustrates a moral lesson (a "moral"), which may at the end be expressed explicitly in a pithy maxim. A fable differs from a parable in that the latter excludes animals, plants, inanimate objects, and forces of nature as actors that assume speech and other powers of humankind. Usage has not always been so clearly distinguished.
Fallout shelter: A fallout shelter is an enclosed space specially designed to protect occupants from radioactive debris or fallout resulting from a nuclear explosion. Many such shelters were constructed as civil defense measures during the Cold War. During a nuclear explosion, matter vaporized in the resulting fireball is exposed to neutrons from the explosion, absorbs them, and becomes radioactive. When this material condenses in the rain, it forms dust and light sandy materials that resembles ground pumice.
Politics of the Federated States of Micronesia: The politics of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) takes place in a framework of a federal parliamentary representative democratic republic. The President of the Federated States of Micronesia is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government, while legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
History of the Federated States of Micronesia: The Federated States of Micronesia are located on the Caroline Islands in the western Pacific Ocean. The ancestors of the Micronesians settled there over 4,000 years ago. A decentralized chieftain-based system eventually evolved into a more centralized economic and religious empire centered on Yap. European explorers - first the Portuguese in search of the Spice Islands and then the Spanish - reached the Carolines in the 16th century, with the Spanish establishing sovereignty.
Demographics of the Federated States of Micronesia: The Demographics of the Federated States of Micronesia refers to the population characteristics of people who inhabit the Federated States of Micronesia. The indigenous population of the Federated States of Micronesia, which is predominantly Micronesian, consists of various ethnolinguistic groups. English has become the common language. Population growth remains high at more than 3%, but is ameliorated somewhat by net emigration.
Economy of the Federated States of Micronesia: The economic activity of the Federated States of Micronesia consists primarily of subsistence agriculture and fishing. The islands have few mineral deposits worth exploiting, except for high-grade phosphate. The potential for a tourist industry exists, but the remoteness of the location and a lack of adequate facilities hinder development. Financial assistance from the US is the primary source of revenue, with the US pledged to spend $1.3 billion in the islands in 1986-2001.
Telecommunications in the Federated States of Micronesia: Telephones - main lines in use: 8,000 (1995) Telephones - mobile cellular: NA Telephone system: domestic: islands interconnected by shortwave radiotelephone (used mostly for government purposes) international: satellite earth stations - 4 Intelsat Radio broadcast stations: AM 5, FM 1, shortwave 0 (1998) Stations below are included in the total: AM Radio stations: AM 89.5 V6AK Radio - Moen (Chuuk) FM English, Chuukese AM 1350 V6A - Baptist Radio - Moen (Chuuk) FM..
Foreign relations of the Federated States of Micronesia: The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) conducts its own foreign relations. Since independence, the FSM has established diplomatic relations with a number of nations, including most of its Pacific neighbors. Regional cooperation through various multilateral organizations is a key element in its foreign policy. The FSM became a member of the United Nations in 1991.
Fandom: Fandom (from the noun fan and the affix -dom, as in kingdom, freedom, etc. ) is a term used to refer to a subculture composed of fans characterized by a feeling of sympathy and camaraderie with others who share a common interest.
Transport in the Federated States of Micronesia: Railways: 0 km Highways: total: paved: unpaved: 198 kilometres (123 mi) (1996 est. ) Ports and harbours: Colonia (Yap), Kolonia, Lele, Moen Merchant marine: total: three ships (1000 GRT or over) 3,560 GRT/2,060 metric tons deadweight (DWT) by type: cargo one, passenger/cargo two (2007) Airports: Six (2007) Airports - with paved runways: total: Six 1,524 to 2,437 m: Four 914 to 1,523 m: Two (2007)
Fleming: A Fleming is a member of the Flemish Community, and, in a slightly different meaning, an inhabitant (or descendant thereof) of Flanders, one of the Belgian regions, and in a wider sense of the word, a region overlapping parts of modern Belgium, France, and the Netherlands. See Flemish people.
Francis Drake: Sir Francis Drake, Vice Admiral (1540 - 27 January 1596), was an English sea captain, privateer, navigator, slaver, a renowned pirate, and politician of the Elizabethan era. Elizabeth I of England awarded Drake a knighthood in 1581. He was second-in-command of the English fleet against the Spanish Armada in 1588, subordinate only to Charles Howard and the Queen herself. He died of dysentery in January 1596 after unsuccessfully attacking San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Fort Collins Colorado: Fort Collins is a Home Rule Municipality situated on the Cache La Poudre River along the Colorado Front Range, and is the county seat and most populous city of Larimer County, Colorado, United States. Fort Collins is located 57 miles (92 km) north of the Colorado State Capitol in Denver. With an estimated 2008 population of 136,509, it is the fifth most populous city in Colorado. Fort Collins is a large college town, home to Colorado State University.
Fast Fourier transform: A fast Fourier transform (FFT) is an efficient algorithm to compute the discrete Fourier transform (DFT) and its inverse. There are many distinct FFT algorithms involving a wide range of mathematics, from simple complex-number arithmetic to group theory and number theory; this article gives an overview of the available techniques and some of their general properties, while the specific algorithms are described in subsidiary articles linked below.
Fort William Scotland: Fort William is the largest town in the highlands of Scotland and second largest settlement behind the city of Inverness. Fort William is a major tourist centre with Glen Coe just to the south, and Glenfinnan to the west, on the Road to the Isles. It is an important centre for hillwalking and climbing due to its proximity to Ben Nevis and many other Munro mountains, marketing itself as the "Outdoor Capital of the UK".
Financial rand: The South African financial rand system was abolished with effect from 13 March 1995. The financial rand system was instituted on 1 September 1985 in an attempt to control the large outflows of capital from South Africa at that time. These outflows were largely the result of economic sanctions in response to apartheid. The financial rand system provided for two exchange rates for the rand, one for current account transactions, and one for capital account transactions for non-residents.
List of FIPS country codes: This is a list of FIPS 10-4 country codes for Countries, Dependencies, Areas of Special Sovereignty, and Their Principal Administrative Divisions. The two-letter country codes were used by the US government for geographical data processing in many publications, such as the CIA World Factbook. The standard is also known as DAFIF 0413 ed 7 Amdt. No. 3 (Nov 2003) and as DIA 65-18 (Defense Intelligence Agency, 1994, "Geopolitical Data Elements and Related Features").
List of French words and phrases used by English speakers: Here are some examples of French words and phrases used by English speakers. There are many words of French origin in English, such as art, collage, competition, force, machine, police, publicity, role, routine, table, and many others which have been and are being Anglicised. They are now pronounced according to English rules of orthography, rather than French (which uses nasal vowels not found in English).
Fair Isle: Fair Isle Scottish Gaelic Eileann nan Geansaidh is an island off Scotland, lying around halfway between Shetland and the Orkney Islands. The most remote inhabited island in the United Kingdom, it is famous for its Bird Observatory and a traditional style of knitting.
Fahrenheit: Fahrenheit is the temperature scale proposed in 1724 by, and named after, the German physicist Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit (1686-1736). Today, the temperature scale has been replaced by the Celsius scale in most countries. It is still in use in the United States and a few other nations, such as Belize.
Four Feather Falls: Four Feather Falls was the third puppet TV show produced by Gerry Anderson for Granada Television, from an idea by Barry Gray.
Falklands War: The Falklands War, also called the Falklands Conflict/Crisis, was fought in 1982 between Argentina and the United Kingdom (UK) over the disputed Falkland Islands and South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands. The Falkland Islands consist of two large and many small islands in the South Atlantic Ocean east of Argentina; their name and sovereignty over them have long been disputed.
Fundamental theorem on homomorphisms: In abstract algebra, the fundamental theorem on homomorphisms, also known as the fundamental homomorphism theorem, relates the structure of two objects between which a homomorphism is given, and of the kernel and image of the homomorphism. The homomorphism theorem is used to prove the isomorphism theorems.
FCO: FCO is the abbreviation for: Foreign and Commonwealth Office - UK Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ferro Carril Oeste - Football club of Buenos Aires and the eponymous railway Financial Control Officer, FCO or FC Fort Collins, Colorado - 5th Most Populated City in Colorado Fair Collections & Outsourcing - Third party / outsourced collections agency located in Beltsville, MD 20705. FCO is also the IATA airport code for: Leonardo da Vinci-Fiumicino Airport which serves Rome, Italy
Fred Savage: Fredrick Aaron "Fred" Savage (born July 9, 1976) is an American actor, director and producer of television and film. He is best known for his role as Kevin Arnold in the television series The Wonder Years. In later years, he has directed and produced numerous episodes of children's programs, such as Ned's Declassified School Survival Guide, Hannah Montana, and Phil of the Future, as well as the primetime series Ugly Betty and It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia. He has also appeared in Family Guy.
Quotient group: In mathematics, specifically group theory, a quotient group (or factor group) is a group obtained by identifying together elements of a larger group using an equivalence relation. For example, the cyclic group of addition modulo n can be obtained from the integers by identifying elements that differ by a multiple of n and defining a group structure that operates on each such class (known as a congruence class) as a single entity.
Florence: Florence is the capital city of the Italian region of Tuscany and of the province of Florence. It is the most populous city in Tuscany, with 367,569 inhabitants (1,500,000 in the metropolitan area). The city lies on the River Arno and is known for its history and its importance in the Middle Ages and in the Renaissance, especially for its art and architecture.
Futurians: The Futurians were a group of science fiction fans, many of whom became editors and writers as well. The Futurians were based in New York City and were a major force in the development of science fiction writing and science fiction fandom in the years 1937-1945.
Four-poster: For the bed, see Four-poster bed Archaeologists refer to two different structures as a four-poster . The first is a type of stone setting found uniquely within the British Isles. They date from the Bronze Age and, as the name suggests, usually consist of four stones. Late Bronze Age, Iron Age and Roman four-posters are square arrangements of postholes, around 2-4m square. Some are thought to have supported a raised granary whilst others have been shown to have supported haystacks.
First Fandom: First Fandom is an association of experienced science fiction fans. In 1958 a number of fans at Midwestcon realized amid table-talk that they all had been active in fandom for more than 20 years. This inspired the creation of an organization for longstanding fans under the initial chairmanship of Robert A. Madle. Originally only those fans who were known to have been active in fandom before the cutoff date, January 1, 1938, were eligible.
Fianna F il: Fianna Fl - The Republican Party, more commonly known as Fianna Fl is a political party in the Republic of Ireland. It is the largest party in both houses of the Oireachtas, Ireland's bicameral parliament, and the leading party in a coalition government with the Green Party, which also has the support of five Independent TDs.
Federalism: Federalism is a political concept in which a group of members are bound together by covenant with a governing representative head. The term federalism is also used to describe a system of the government in which sovereignty is constitutionally divided between a central governing authority and constituent political units (like states or provinces).
Firmin Abauzit: Firmin Abauzit (1679-1767) was a French scholar who worked on physics, theology and philosophy, and served as librarian in Geneva during his final 40 years. Abauzit is also notable for proofreading or correcting the writings of Isaac Newton and other scholars.
Fujiwara clan: The Fujiwara clan ( Fujiwara-shi), descending from the Nakatomi clan, was a powerful family of regents in Japan. The clan originated when the founder, Nakatomi no Kamatari (614-669), was given the surname Fujiwara by Emperor Tenji. The Fujiwara dominated the Japanese politics of Heian period (794-1185) through the monopoly of regent positions, Sessh and Kampaku.
Feedback: Feedback describes the situation when output from (or information about the result of) an event or phenomenon in the past will influence an ocurrence or ocurrences of the same (i.e. same defined) event / phenomenon (or the continuation / development of the original phenomenon) in the present or future. When an event is part of a chain of cause-and-effect that forms a circuit or loop, then the event is said to "feed back" into itself.
French Foreign Legion: The French Foreign Legion is a unique unit in the French Army established in 1831. The legion was specifically created for foreign nationals wishing to serve in the French Armed Forces, but commanded by French officers. However, it is also open to French citizens, who amounted to 24% of the recruits as of 2007. The Legion is today known as an elite military unit whose training focuses not only on traditional military skills but also on its strong esprit de corps.
Furigana: Furigana is a Japanese reading aid, consisting of smaller kana, or syllabic characters, printed next to a kanji or other character to indicate its pronunciation. In horizontal text, yokogaki, they are placed above the line of text, while in vertical text, tategaki, they are placed to the right of the line of text, as illustrated below. It is one type of ruby text. Furigana are also known as yomigana or rubi in Japanese. or
Francis II Holy Roman Emperor: Francis II (12 February 1768 - 2 March 1835) was the last Holy Roman Emperor, ruling from 1792 until 6 August 1806, when he dissolved the Empire after the disastrous defeat of the Third Coalition by Napoleon at the Battle of Austerlitz. In 1804, he had founded the Austrian Empire and became Francis I of Austria (Franz I. ), the first Emperor of Austria (Kaiser von terreich), ruling from 1804 to 1835, so later he was named the one and only Doppelkaiser (double emperor) in history.
Fugazi disambiguation: Fugazi may refer to: Fugazi (band), a rock band from Washington, D.C. , and its eponymous dut EP Fugazi (album), a 1984 studio album of the progressive rock band Marillion, featuring a song also named "Fugazi" Club Fugazi, a theater in the North Beach District of San Francisco, California, the perennial venue of Beach Blanket Babylon
Frederick Abel: Sir Frederick Augustus Abel, 1st Baronet FRS (17 July 1827 - 6 September 1902) was an English chemist. (The Chambers Biographical Dictionary gives his year of birth as 1826. ) Born in London, Abel studied chemistry for six years under A. W. von Hofmann at the Royal College of Chemistry, then became professor of chemistry at the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich in 1851, and three years later was appointed chemist to the War Department and chemical referee to the government.
Flamenco: Flamenco is a style of music and dance which is considered part of the culture of Spain. It is an exotic dance, but is actually native to only one region: Andalusia. The term is also applied to the dance style performed to flamenco music. Andalusian, Gypsy, Sephardic, Moorish and Byzantine influences have been detected in flamenco, often said to have coalesced prior to and after the Reconquista was completed, in the 15th century.
Fundamental theorem of arithmetic: In number theory and algebraic number theory, the Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic (or Unique-Prime-Factorization Theorem) states that any integer greater than 1 can be written as a unique product (up to ordering of the factors) of prime numbers. For example, are two examples of numbers satisfying the hypothesis of the theorem that can be written as the product of prime numbers. Intuitively, this theorem characterizes prime numbers uniquely in the sense that they are the "fundamental numbers.
Fluorescence: Fluorescence is the emission of electromagnetic radiation light by a substance that has absorbed radiation of a different wavelength. In most cases, absorption of light of a certain wavelength induces the emission of light with a larger wavelength (and lower energy). However, under conditions in which intense radiation is being absorbed, it is possible for one electron to absorb two photons, which can lead to the emission of radiation having a smaller wavelength than the excitation source.
Federal jurisdiction United States: The United States of America being a federal country is made up of many (currently fifty) States and a central government. This central government may be known as the Union, the United States, or the Federal government. Similarly Federal jurisdiction refers to the legal scope of the Union's powers.
Frequency modulation synthesis: In audio and music frequency modulation synthesis (or FM synthesis) is a form of audio synthesis where the timbre of a simple waveform is changed by frequency modulating it with a modulating frequency that is also in the audio range, resulting in a more complex waveform and a different-sounding tone. The frequency of an oscillator is altered or distorted, "in accordance with the amplitude of a modulating signal.
Father Christmas: Father Christmas is the name used in many English-speaking countries for a symbolic figure associated with Christmas. A similar figure with the same name (in other languages) exists in several other countries, including France (Pe Nol), Spain (Pap Noel), Catalonia (Pare Noel), Malta (il-Krismis Fader), Brazil (Papai Noel), Portugal (Pai Natal), Italy (Babbo Natale), India (Christmas Father) and Romania (Mo Crciun).
Font disambiguation: Font may mean: Font in typography, a complete character set in a particular point size, in a particular typeface Computer font Unicode typefaces (also known as, Unicode fonts) font family (HTML), an HTML element Holy water font, a vessel for holy water, often seen at the entrance of a church Baptismal font, a container for holy water used in the Christian ceremonial of baptism Fountain (archaic usage, also spelled fount) Font, Switzerland, a municipality of the canton of Fribourg
Friedrich Bessel: Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel (22 July 1784 - 17 March 1846) was a German mathematician, astronomer, and systematizer of the Bessel functions (which were discovered by Daniel Bernoulli). He was a contemporary of Carl Gauss, also a mathematician and astronomer. The asteroid 1552 Bessel was named in his honour.
Fermi paradox: The Fermi paradox is the apparent contradiction between high estimates of the probability of the existence of extraterrestrial civilizations and the lack of evidence for, or contact with, such civilizations. The age of the universe and its vast number of stars suggest that if the Earth is typical, extraterrestrial life should be common.
Fundamentalism: Fundamentalism refers to a belief in a strict adherence to a set of basic principles (often religious in nature), sometimes as a reaction to perceived doctrinal compromises with modern social and political life.
Show Me Love film: Show Me Love, originally titled Fucking , is a 1998 Swedish film directed by Lukas Moodysson. The film is centered around the lives of two seemingly disparate teenage girls who begin a tentative romantic relationship. The film first premiered outside Sweden at the 1998 Cannes Film Festival under its original title.
Full disclosure: In computer security, full disclosure means to disclose all the details of a security problem which are known. It is a philosophy of security management completely opposed to the idea of security through obscurity. The concept of full disclosure is controversial, but not new; it has been an issue for locksmiths since the 19th century.
FSK: FSK can have alternative meanings: FSK (Russia) (Federalnaya Sluzhba Kontrrazvedki, Federal Counterintelligence Service of Russia) Frequency-shift keying, a modulation scheme Forsvarets Spesialkommando (FSK), a Norwegian special forces military unit FSK (band), a German band Freiwillige Selbstkontrolle der Filmwirtschaft (FSK), a German movie rating organization Fsk, pen name for Botjan ade, creator of Line Rider
Feminist theology: Feminist theology is a movement found in several religions, including Buddhism, Christianity, Judaism, and New Thought, to reconsider the traditions, practices, scriptures, and theologies of those religions from a feminist perspective.
List of fictional guidebooks: Some fictional universes feature useful guidebooks which assist the hero and friends through difficult situations. Features of a great fictional guidebook: Such books are ideally compact enough to carry on even the most strenuous adventures, yet detailed enough to contain exactly the information the reader needs at that particular point in the plot. Many guidebooks are electronic in nature; some can access relevant information through a wireless connection.
Freeware: Freeware (from "free" and "software") is computer software that is available for use at no cost or for an optional fee. Software that is commercial is occasionally referred to as payware.
Flat Earth: The Flat Earth model is a view that the Earth's shape is a flat plane or disk. Various ancient cultures had conceptions of a flat Earth, such as Babylon, Ancient Egypt, pre-Classical Greece, pre-Classical India and pre-17th century China. This view remained long dominant in ancient thought until the realization first recorded around the 4th century BC in Classical Greece that the Earth is spherical.
Farsi disambiguation: Farsi is the indigenous name for the Persian language.
Persian language: Persian is an Iranian language within the Indo-Iranian branch of the Indo-European languages. It is widely spoken in Iran, Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and to some extent in Iraq, Bahrain, and Oman.
Frances Abington: Frances "Fanny" Abington (1737 - 4 March 1815) was a British actress.
Finite field: In abstract algebra, a finite field or Galois field (so named in honor of ariste Galois) is a field that contains only finitely many elements. Finite fields are important in number theory, algebraic geometry, Galois theory, cryptography, and coding theory. The finite fields are classified by size; there is exactly one finite field up to isomorphism of size p for each prime p and positive integer k.
Franchising: Franchising is the practice of using another firm's succesful business model. The word 'franchise' is of anglo-french derivation - from franc- meaning free, and is used both as a noun and as a (transitive) verb.,. For the franchisor, the franchise is an alternative to building 'chain stores' to distribute goods and avoid investment and liability over a chain. The franchisor's success is the success of the franchisees.
Feynman diagram: In theoretical quantum physics a physical quantity, like a cross section, is often calculated using the so called perturbation theory, where the quantity is represented as an infinite series, that is, a sum of ever decreasing terms. A Feynman diagram is an intuitive graphical representation of a term in this series.
Food writing: A list of some prominent writers on food, cooking, dining, and cultural history related to food.
Fermion: In particle physics, fermions are particles which obey Fermi-Dirac statistics; they are named after Enrico Fermi. In contrast to bosons, which have Bose-Einstein statistics, only one fermion can occupy a quantum state at a given time. Thus, if more than one fermion occupies the same place in space, the properties of each fermion (e.g. its spin) must be different from the rest.
Francesco I Sforza: Francesco I Sforza (July 23, 1401 - March 8, 1466) was an Italian condottiero, the founder of the Sforza dynasty in Milan, Italy. He was the brother of Alessandro, with whom he often fought.
Futurama New York World's Fair: The Futurama was an exhibit/ride at the 1939-40 New York World's Fair held in the United States, designed by Norman Bel Geddes that tried to show the world 20 years into the future (1959-1960), including automated highways and vast suburbs. The exhibit was sponsored by General Motors. Compared to other "visions of the future", Bel Geddes' was rather achievable - the most advanced technology posited was the automated highway system, of which GM did indeed build a working prototype by 1960.
Folk dance: The term folk dance describes dances that share some or all of the following attributes: They are dances performed at social functions by people with little or no professional training, often to traditional music or music based on traditional music. They are not designed for public performance or the stage, although traditional folkdances may be later arranged and set for stage performances.
Faith healing: Faith healing is a concept that religious belief can bring about healing- either through prayers or rituals that, according to adherents, evoke a divine presence and power toward correcting disease and disability in particular indicated individuals. Belief in divine intervention in illness or healing is related to religious belief in general.
Fyodor Dostoyevsky: Fyodor Mikhaylovich Dostoyevsky, sometimes transliterated Dostoevsky, Dostoievsky, Dostojevskij, Dostoevski, Dostojevski or Dostoevskij (11 November 1821 - 9 February 1881) was a Russian writer and essayist, known for his novels Crime and Punishment and The Brothers Karamazov. Dostoyevsky's literary output explores human psychology in the troubled political, social and spiritual context of 19th-century Russian society.
Fritz Lang: Friedrich "Fritz" Christian Anton Lang (December 5, 1890 - August 2, 1976) was an Austrian-German-American filmmaker, screenwriter, and occasional film producer and actor. One of the best known igr from Germany's school of Expressionism, he was dubbed the "Master of Darkness" by the British Film Institute.
Field extension: In mathematics, more specifically in abstract algebra, field extensions are the main object of study in field theory. The general idea is to start with a base field and construct in some manner a larger field which contains the base field and satisfies additional properties. Field extensions can be generalized to ring extensions which consists of a ring and one of its subrings.
Flood fill: Flood fill, also called seed fill, is an algorithm that determines the area connected to a given node in a multi-dimensional array. It is used in the "bucket" fill tool of paint programs to determine which parts of a bitmap to fill with color, and in puzzle games such as Minesweeper, Puyo Puyo, Lumines, Samegame and Magical Drop for determining which pieces are cleared. When applied on an image to fill a particular bounded area with color, it is also known as boundary fill.
Francis of Assisi: Saint Francis of Assisi (Giovanni Francesco di Bernardone; 1181/1182 - October 3, 1226) was a Catholic deacon and the founder of the Order of Friars Minor, more commonly known as the Franciscans. He is known as the patron saint of animals, the environment and one of the two patrons of Italy, and it is customary for Catholic churches to hold ceremonies blessing animals on his feast day of 4 October.
First Council of Constantinople: The First Council of Constantinople is recognised as the Second Ecumenical Council by the Assyrian Church of the East, the Oriental Orthodox, the Eastern Orthodox, the Roman Catholics, the Old Catholics, and a number of other Western Christian groups. This being the first Ecumenical Council held in Constantinople, it was called by Theodosius I in 381 which confirmed the Nicene Creed and dealt with other matters such as Arian controversy.
F-16 Fighting Falcon: The Lockheed Martin F-16 Fighting Falcon is a multirole jet fighter aircraft originally developed by General Dynamics for the United States Air Force. Designed as a lightweight, daytime fighter, it evolved into a successful multirole aircraft. The F-16's versatility is a paramount reason it has proven a success on the export market, having been selected to serve in the air forces of 25 nations. Over 4,400 aircraft have been built since production was approved in 1976.
Fourth Council of Constantinople Eastern Orthodox: For the 8th Catholic Ecumenical Council, see Fourth Council of Constantinople (Catholic) The Fourth Council of Constantinople of 879-880 is believed to have been the Eighth Ecumenical Council by some Eastern Orthodox. Photios, a noble layman, had been appointed Patriarch of Constantinople but deposed by a Council of Constantinople called in 869 by Emperor Basil I the Macedonian and Pope Adrian II.
Friedrich von Hayek: Friedrich August von Hayek CH (8 May 1899 - 23 March 1992), was an Austrian-born economist and philosopher known for his defence of classical liberalism and free-market capitalism against socialist and collectivist thought. He is considered by some to be one of the most important economists and political philosophers of the twentieth century.
Fred Brooks: Frederick Phillips Brooks, Jr. (born April 19, 1931) is a software engineer and computer scientist, best-known for managing the development of OS/360, then later writing candidly about the process in his seminal book The Mythical Man-Month. "It is a very humbling experience to make a multi-million-dollar mistake, but it is also very memorable. " Brooks received the Turing Award in 1999 and many other awards.
Fred Reed: Fred Reed (born 1945 in Crumpler, West Virginia) is a technology columnist for The Washington Times, and the author of Fred on Everything, a weekly independent column. He also writes books and other material. He has also written for The American Conservative and LewRockwell. com. A former Marine, Reed is a police writer, an occasional war correspondent, and an aficionado of bars. His work, written in a unique and articulate style, is often satirical and opinionated.
Factoid: A factoid is a questionable or unverified, incorrect, or fabricatedstatement formed and asserted as a fact, but with no . The word appears in the Oxford English Dictionary as "something which becomes accepted as fact, although it may not be true. " However, the word can sometimes mean, instead, an insignificant but true piece of information. In either formulation, factoids are potentially factual, just not self-evidently so.
Figured bass: Figured bass, or thoroughbass, is a kind of integer musical notation used to indicate intervals, chords, and nonchord tones, in relation to a bass note. Figured bass is closely associated with basso continuo, an accompaniment used in almost all genres of music in the Baroque period, though rarely in modern music.
Fashion: Fashion is the style and custom prevalent at a given time. In its most common usage however, "fashion" describes the popular clothing style. Many fashions are popular in many cultures at any given time. Important is the idea that the course of design and fashion will change more rapidly than the culture as a whole. Fashion designers aim to create wearable pieces of art.
False Claims Act: The False Claims Act is an American federal law that allows people who are not affiliated with the government to file actions against federal contractors claiming fraud against the government. The act of filing such actions is informally called "whistleblowing. " Persons filing under the Act stand to receive a portion (usually about 15-25 percent) of any recovered damages. The Act provides a legal tool to counteract fraudulent billings turned in to the Federal Government.
Filtration: Filtration is a mechanical or physical operation which is used for the separation of solids from fluids (liquids or gases) by interposing a medium through which only the fluid can pass. Oversize solids in the fluid are retained, but the separation is not complete; solids will be contaminated with some fluid and filtrate will contain fine particles (depending on the pore size and filter thickness).
Fourier analysis: In mathematics, Fourier analysis is a subject area which grew out of the study of Fourier series. The subject began with trying to understand when it was possible to represent general functions by sums of simpler trigonometric functions. The attempt to understand functions (or other objects) by breaking them into basic pieces that are easier to understand is one of the central themes in Fourier analysis.
Fantastic Four: The Fantastic Four is a fictional superhero team appearing in comic books published by Marvel Comics. The group debuted in The Fantastic Four #1 (November 1961), which helped to usher in a new level of verisimilitude in the medium. The Fantastic Four was the first superhero team created by writer-editor Stan Lee and artist and co-plotter Jack Kirby, who developed a collaborative approach to creating comics with this title that they would use from then on.
Follies: Follies is a musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and a book by James Goldman. Several of its songs have become standards, including "Broadway Baby," "I'm Still Here," "Too Many Mornings," "Could I Leave You?" and "Losing My Mind. " The play was nominated for eleven Tonys and won seven. The Broadway production opened on April 4, 1971, directed by Harold Prince and Michael Bennett, and with choreography by Bennett.
Fick's laws of diffusion: Fick's laws of diffusion describe diffusion and can be used to solve for the diffusion coefficient, D. They were derived by Adolf Fick in the year 1855.
Functional theories of grammar: A range of functionally-based approaches to the scientific study of language have been termed "functional". The grammar model developed by Simon Dik bears this qualification in its name, Functional Grammar, as does Michael Halliday's Systemic functional grammar. Role and Reference Grammar, founded by Robert Van Valin is also considerered a functional theory. Another important figure in recent linguistic functionalism is Talmy Giv, but his theorising has not been given a unique name.
Fat Man: "Fat Man" is the codename for the atomic bomb that was detonated over Nagasaki, Japan, by the United States on August 9, 1945, at 11:02 (JSP). It was the second of the only two nuclear weapons to be used in warfare and was the third man-made nuclear explosion. The name also refers more generically to the early nuclear weapon designs of U.S. weapons based on the "Fat Man" model.
Far East: The Far East is a term used in English (with equivalents in various other languages of Europe and Asia, Chinese yun dng literally translating to "") mostly equivalent to East Asia and Southeast Asia, sometimes to the inclusion of South Asia for economic and cultural reasons. "Far East" came into use in European geopolitical discourse in the 19th century, denoting Eastern Asia as the "farthest" of the three "easts", beyond the Near East and the Middle East.
False friend: False friends (or faux amis) are pairs of words in two languages or dialects (or letters in two alphabets) that look or sound similar, but differ in meaning. False cognates, by contrast, are similar words in different languages that appear to have a common historical linguistic origin (whatever their current meaning) but actually do not. As language evolves, meanings change, and words from the past become false friends although in the same language. There are many examples in Shakespeare.
Fawlty Towers: Fawlty Towers is a British sitcom produced by BBC Television and first broadcast on BBC2 in 1975. Twelve episodes were produced (two series with six episodes each). The setting is the fictional hotel Fawlty Towers in the seaside town of Torquay on the "English Riviera" (where the Gleneagles hotel that inspired John Cleese was situated). The show was written by Cleese and his then wife Connie Booth, both of whom played main characters.
False cognate: False cognates are pairs of words in the same or different languages that are similar in form and meaning but have different roots. That is, they appear to be, or are sometimes considered, cognates, when in fact they are not. Note that even false cognates may have an indirect connection between them, even if they lack a common root.
Fantasy Games Unlimited: Fantasy Games Unlimited, often referred to as just FGU, is a publishing house for both table-top and role-playing games. They have no in-house design teams and rely on submitted material from outside talent.
Frasier: Frasier is an American sitcom broadcast on NBC for eleven seasons, from September 16, 1993 to May 13, 2004. The program was created and produced by David Angell, Peter Casey, and David Lee (as Grub Street Productions) in association with Paramount Television. A spin-off from Cheers, Frasier stars Kelsey Grammer as psychiatrist Dr. Frasier Crane. David Hyde Pierce, John Mahoney, Jane Leeves, Peri Gilpin and Moose rounded out the regular cast.
Fundamental analysis: Fundamental analysis of a business involves analyzing its financial statements and health, its management and competitive advantages, and its competitors and markets. When applied to futures and forex, it focuses on the overall state of the economy, interest rates, production, earnings, and management. When analyzing a stock, futures contract, or currency using fundamental analysis there are two basic approaches one can use; bottom up analysis and top down analysis.
Functional decomposition: Functional decomposition refers broadly to the process of resolving a functional relationship into its constituent parts in such a way that the original function can be reconstructed (i.e. , recomposed) from those parts by function composition.
Franz Bopp: Franz Bopp (September 14, 1791 - October 23, 1867) was a German linguist known for extensive comparative work on Indo-European languages.
Full Metal Jacket: Full Metal Jacket is a 1987 war film by Stanley Kubrick, based on the novel The Short-Timers by Gustav Hasford. The title refers to the full metal jacket bullet type of ammunition used by infantry riflemen. The film follows a squad of U.S. Marines through their United States Marine Corps Recruit Training and depicts some of the experiences of two of them in the Tet Offensive (1968) during the Vietnam War.
Franz Boas: Franz Boas (July 9, 1858 - December 21, 1942) was a German American anthropologist and a pioneer of modern anthropology who has been called the "Father of American Anthropology". Like many such pioneers, he trained in other disciplines; he received his doctorate in physics, and did post-doctoral work in geography.
Flirting: "Flirt" redirects here. For other uses, see Flirt. Flirting is a common form of social interaction whereby one person obliquely indicates a romantic or sexual interest towards another. It can consist of conversation, body language, or brief physical contact. It may be one-sided or reciprocated (encouraged) with intentions of getting to know that person on a higher level.
Fungimol: Fungimol is Tim Freeman's extensible system for designing atomic-scale objects. The intent is to eventually extend it to be a useful system for doing molecular nanotechnology design work. At the moment it is a PDB file viewer and buckminsterfullerene editor. Fungimol (including this document) is distributed under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License. This license is flexible enough to permit creating proprietary plugins under certain circumstances.
Finch: The true finches are passerine birds in the family Fringillidae. They are predominantly seed-eating songbirds. Most are native to Southern Hemisphere, but one subfamily is endemic to the Neotropics, one to the Hawaiian Islands, and one subfamily - monotypic at genus level - is found only in the Palaearctic.
Freeway: A freeway is a type of road designed for safer high-speed operation of motor vehicles through the elimination of at-grade intersections. This is accomplished by preventing access to and from adjacent properties and eliminating all cross traffic through the use of grade separations and interchanges; railroad crossings are also removed. Such highways are usually divided with at least two lanes in each direction.
Franklin J. Schaffner: Franklin James Schaffner (May 30, 1920 - July 2, 1989) was an American film director.
F-15 Eagle: The McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle is a twin-engine, all-weather tactical fighter designed to gain and maintain air superiority in aerial combat. It is considered among the most successful modern fighters with over 100 aerial combat victories. Following reviews of proposals, the United States Air Force selected McDonnell Douglas' design in 1967 to meet the service's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter. The Eagle first flew in July 1972, and entered service in 1976.
Facilitated diffusion: Facilitated diffusion (also known as facilitated transport or passive-mediated transport) is a process of passive transport, facilitated by transport proteins. Facilitated diffusion is the spontaneous passage of molecules or ions across a biological membrane passing through specific transmembrane transport proteins. The facilitated diffusion may occur either across biological membranes or through aqueous compartments of an organism.
F-14 Tomcat: The Grumman F-14 Tomcat is a supersonic, twin-engine, two-seat, variable-sweep wing aircraft. The F-14 was the United States Navy's primary maritime air superiority fighter, fleet defense interceptor and tactical reconnaissance platform from 1974 to 2006. It later performed precision strike missions once it was integrated with the Low Altitude Navigation and Targeting Infrared for Night LANTIRN system.
F-117 Nighthawk: The Lockheed F-117 Nighthawk is a stealth ground attack aircraft formerly operated by the United States Air Force. The F-117A's first flight was in 1981, and it achieved initial operating capability status in October 1983. The F-117A was "acknowledged" and revealed to the world in November 1988. A product of the Skunk Works and a development of the Have Blue technology demonstrator, it became the first operational aircraft initially designed around stealth technology.
F4U Corsair: The Chance Vought F4U Corsair was a carrier-capable fighter aircraft that saw service primarily in World War II and the Korean War. Goodyear-built Corsairs were designated FG and Brewster-built aircraft F3A. The Corsair served in smaller air forces until the 1960s, following the longest production run of any piston-engined fighter in U.S. history (1942-1952). Some Japanese pilots regarded it as the most formidable American fighter of World War II. The U.S.
Freddy Heineken: Alfred Henry (Freddy) Heineken (November 4, 1923, Amsterdam, Netherlands -January 3, 2002) was a Dutch major stock holder and president of Heineken International, the brewing company bought in 1864 by his grandfather Gerard Adriaan Heineken in Amsterdam. He entered the service of the company (which by then was no longer owned by the family) on 1 June 1941 and bought back stock several years later, to ensure the family controlled the company again.
International Formula 3000: The Formula 3000 International Championship (initially titled the European Formula 3000 Championship) was created by the Fation Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) in 1985 to become the final preparatory step for drivers hoping to enter the Formula One championship. Formula Two had become too expensive, and was dominated by works-run cars with factory engines; the hope was that Formula 3000 would offer quicker, cheaper, more open racing.
Flunitrazepam: Flunitrazepam is marketed as a strong hypnotic and powerful sedative, anticonvulsant, anxiolytic, amnestic, and skeletal muscle relaxant drug. A short-intermediate acting benzodiazepine derivative, flunitrazepam is prescribed for the treatment of severe insomnia, marketed by Roche most commonly under the trade name Rohypnol. It is also marketed in some countries under the trade names Flunitrazepam, Hipnosedon, Hypnodorm, Flunipam, Nilium, Vulbegal, Silece, Darkene, Ilman, Insom and Fluscand.
Fuel cell: A fuel cell is an electrochemical cell that converts a source fuel into an electrical current and water. It generates electricity inside a cell through reactions between a fuel and an oxidant, triggered in the presence of an electrolyte. The reactants flow into the cell, and the reaction products flow out of it, while the electrolyte remains within it. Fuel cells can operate virtually continuously as long as the necessary flows are maintained.
Fred Singer: Siegfried Frederick Singer (born 27 September 1924 in Vienna) is an American atmospheric physicist. Singer is Professor Emeritus of environmental science at the University of Virginia, specializing in planetary science, global warming, ozone depletion, and other global environmental issues.
Frederik Pohl: Frederik George Pohl, Jr. (born November 26, 1919) is an American science fiction writer, editor and fan, with a career spanning over seventy years. From about 1959 until 1969, Pohl edited Galaxy magazine and its sister magazine if, winning the Hugo for if three years in a row. His writing also won him three Hugos and multiple Nebula Awards. He became a Nebula Grand Master in 1993.
Finlandization: Finlandization is the influence that one powerful country may have on the policies of a smaller neighboring country. It is generally considered to be pejorative, originating in West German political debate of the late 1960s and 1970s. As the term was used in Germany and other NATO countries, it meant the process of turning into a country which, although maintaining national sovereignty, in foreign politics resolves not to challenge a more powerful neighbour.
Forrest J Ackerman: Forrest J Ackerman (November 24, 1916 - December 4, 2008) was an American collector of science fiction books and movie memorabilia and a science fiction fan. He was, for over seven decades, one of science fiction's staunchest spokesmen and promoters. Ackerman was a Los Angeles, California-based magazine editor, science fiction writer and literary agent, a founder of science fiction fandom and possibly the world's most avid collector of genre books and movie memorabilia.
Fantasy film: Fantasy films are films with fantastic themes, usually involving magic, supernatural events, make-believe creatures, or exotic fantasy worlds. The genre is considered to be distinct from science fiction film and horror film, although the genres do overlap.
Finite set: In mathematics, finite set is a set that has a finite number of elements. For example, is a finite set with five elements. The number of elements of a finite set is a natural number, and is called the cardinality of the set. A set that is not finite is called infinite. For example, the set of all positive integers is infinite: Finite sets are particularly important in combinatorics, the mathematical study of counting.
Farmer Giles of Ham: "Farmer Giles of Ham" is a Medieval fable written by J. R. R. Tolkien in 1937 and published in 1949. The story describes the encounters between Farmer Giles and a wily dragon named Chrysophylax, and how Giles manages to use these to rise from humble beginnings to rival the king of the land. It is cheerfully anachronistic and light-hearted, set in a fantasy Great Britain of long ago, with mythical creatures, medieval knights, and primitive firearms.
List of chess players: This list of chess players depicts men and women who are primarily known as chess players and have an article on the English Wikipedia.
Foresight Institute: The Foresight Nanotech Institute (formerly Foresight Institute) is a Palo Alto, California-based nonprofit organization for increasing awareness about the uses and consequences of molecular nanotechnology. They sponsor conferences on the subject, publish reports, and produce a newsletter. The Institute was founded in 1986 by K. Eric Drexler, no longer with the Institute, along with Christine Peterson, now the Vice-President of Public Policy.
List of freshwater aquarium invertebrate species: Invertebrates are commonly introduced into freshwater aquaria. There are several snail species, numerous shrimps, and crayfish that are found in aquaria.
List of freshwater aquarium fish species: A vast number of species of fish have been successfully kept in the home aquarium. This list gives only some of the most commonly-kept species.
List of freshwater aquarium plant species: Aquatic plants are used to give the aquarium a natural appearance, oxygenate the water, and provide habitat for fish, especially fry (babies) and for invertebrates. Some aquarium fish and invertebrates also eat live plants. Hobbyists use aquatic plants for aquascaping, with one aesthetic style spearheaded by Japanese aquarist Takashi Amano. Most of these plant species are found either partially or fully submersed in their natural habitat.
Fonni: Fonni is a town and comune in Sardinia, in the province of Nuoro. It is the highest town in Sardinia, and situated among fine scenery with some chestnut woods. Fonni is a winter sports centre with a ski lift to Monte Spada and Bruncu Spina.
Fasces: Fasces symbolize summary power and jurisdiction, and/or "strength through unity". Fasces frequently occur as a charge in heraldry, and should not be confused with the related term, fess, which in French heraldry is called a fasce.
Fast combat support ship: The fast combat support ship (AOE) is the United States Navy's largest combat logistics ship, designed as an oiler, ammunition and supply ship. All fast combat support ships currently in service are operated by Military Sealift Command (MSC). The AOE has the speed and armament to keep up with carrier battle groups.
FASA: FASA Corporation was an American publisher of role-playing games, wargames and boardgames between 1980 and 2001. Originally the name FASA was an acronym for "Freedonian Aeronautics and Space Administration", a joking allusion to the Marx Brothers film Duck Soup. This tongue-in-cheek attitude was carried over in humorous self-references in its games. For example, in Shadowrun, a tactical nuclear device was detonated near FASA's offices at 1026 W. Van Buren St in Chicago, Illinois.
F-4 Phantom II: The McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II is a tandem two-seat, twin-engined, all-weather, long-range supersonic jet interceptor fighter/fighter-bomber originally developed for the U.S. Navy by McDonnell Aircraft. Proving highly adaptable, it became a major part of the air wings of the United States Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force.
FH Phantom: The McDonnell FH Phantom was a twin-engined jet fighter aircraft designed and first flown during World War II for the United States Navy. The Phantom was the first purely jet-powered aircraft to land on an American aircraft carrier and the first jet deployed by the United States Marine Corps. Although its front-line service was relatively brief, it proved the viability of carrier-based jet fighters to the leadership of the US Navy.
Fricative consonant: Fricatives are consonants produced by forcing air through a narrow channel made by placing two articulators close together. These may be the lower lip against the upper teeth, in the case of [f]; the back of the tongue against the soft palate, in the case of German [x], the final consonant of Bach; or the side of the tongue against the molars, in the case of Welsh [], appearing twice in the name Llanelli. This turbulent airflow is called frication.
Franz Schmidt: Franz Schmidt (December 22, 1874 - February 11, 1939) was an Austrian composer, cellist and pianist.
Frost: Frost is the solid deposition of water vapor from saturated air. It is formed when solid surfaces are cooled to below the dew point of the adjacent air as well as below the freezing point of water. Frost crystals' size differ depending on time and water vapor available. Frost is also usually translucent in appearance. There are many types of frost, such as radiation and window frost. Frost causes economic damage when it destroys plants or hanging fruits.
Flynn effect: The Flynn effect describes an increase in the average intelligence quotient (IQ) test scores over generations (IQ gains over time). Similar improvements have been reported for other cognitions such as semantic and episodic memory. The effect has been observed in most parts of the world at different rates. The Flynn effect is named for James R. Flynn, who did much to document it and promote awareness of its implications. The term itself was coined by the authors of The Bell Curve.
Field ion microscope: Field ion microscopy (FIM) is an analytical technique used in materials science. The field ion microscope is a type of microscope that can be used to image the arrangement of atoms at the surface of a sharp metal tip. It was the first technique by which individual atoms could be spatially resolved. The technique was pioneered by Erwin Wilhelm Mller. Images of atomic structures of tungsten were first published in 1951 in the journal Zeitschrift fr Physik.
Finnish Civil War: The Finnish Civil War was a part of the national and social turmoil caused by World War I (1914-1918) in Europe. The war was fought in Finland from 27 January to 15 May 1918 between the forces of the Social Democrats led by the People's Deputation of Finland, commonly called the "Reds" (punaiset), and the forces of the nonsocialist, conservative-led Senate, commonly called the "Whites" (valkoiset).
First Italo-Ethiopian War: The First Italo-Ethiopian War was fought between Italy and Ethiopia from 1895 to 1896. Ethiopia's military victory over Italy secured it the distinction of being the only African nation to resist European colonialism with a decisive show of force.
First Battle of El Alamein: The First Battle of El Alamein 1-27 July 1942 was a battle of the Western Desert Campaign of the Second World War, fought between Axis forces (Germany and Italy) commanded by Erwin Rommel, and Allied forces (Britain, India, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand) commanded by Claude Auchinleck. The battle halted the second (and final) advance by the Axis forces into Egypt, El Alamein being only 66 miles from Alexandria.
Frederick Soddy: Frederick Soddy (2 September 1877 - 22 September 1956) was an English radiochemist who explained, with Ernest Rutherford, that radioactivity is due to the transmutation of elements, now known to involve nuclear reactions. He also proved the existence of isotopes of certain radioactive elements. He received the Nobel Prize for Chemistry in 1921, and has a crater named for him on the far side of the Moon.
Fur seal: Fur seals are any of nine species of pinnipeds in the Otariidae family. One species, the northern fur seal (Callorhinus ursinus) inhabits the North Pacific, while seven species in the Arctocephalus genus are found primarily in the Southern hemisphere. They are much more closely related to sea lions than true seals, and share with them external ears, relatively long and muscular foreflippers, and the ability to walk on all fours.
Flip-flop electronics: In digital circuits, a flip-flop is a term referring to an electronic circuit that has two stable states and thereby is capable of serving as one bit of memory. Today, the term flip-flop has come to mostly denote non-transparent (clocked or edge-triggered) devices, while the simpler transparent ones are often referred to as latches; however, as this distinction is quite new, the two words are sometimes used interchangeably (see history).
Frisian: Frisian or Friesian can refer to:
Fauna disambiguation: Fauna is a collective term for animal life. Fauna may also refer to: Fauna (goddess), an ancient Roman goddess Fauna, Bloemfontein, a suburb of the South African city of Bloemfontein Fauna, a fictional character from Disney's Sleeping Beauty Fauna Range, a hill range in Bundelkhand, India Fauna (magazine), a zoological magazine from the 1970s Fauna (board game), a 2009 Spiel Des Jahres-nominated board game
Fleetwood Mac: Fleetwood Macare a British-American rock band formed in 1967 in London. The only member present in the band from the very beginning is its namesake drummer, Mick Fleetwood.
Federico Fellini: Federico Fellini, Cavaliere di Gran Croce OMRI (January 20, 1920 - October 31, 1993) was an Italian film director. Known for a distinct style that blends fantasy and baroque images, he is considered one of the most influential and widely revered filmmakers of the 20th century.
Frederick I Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach: Friedrich, Margrave of Ansbach and Bayreuth, known as Friedrich I or Friedrich V (8 May 1460-4 April 1536) was born at Ansbach, the eldest son of the Albert III, Margrave of Brandenburg by his second wife Anna, daughter of Frederick II, Elector of Saxony. His elder half-brother was the Elector Johann Cicero of Brandenburg. Friedrich succeeded his father as Margrave of Ansbach in 1486 and his younger brother as Margrave of Bayreuth in 1495.
Frederick William I of Prussia: Frederick William I (14 August 1688 - 31 May 1740) of the House of Hohenzollern, was the King in Prussia and Elector of Brandenburg (as Frederick William II) from 1713 until his death. He is popularly known as "the Soldier-King" (der Soldatenkig). He was in personal union the sovereign prince of the Principality of Neuchel.
Felsic: Felsic is a term used in geology to refer to silicate minerals, magma, and rocks which are enriched in the lighter elements such as silicon, oxygen, aluminium, sodium, and potassium. The term combines the words "feldspar" and "silica. " Felsic minerals are usually light in color and have specific gravities less than 3. Common felsic minerals include quartz, muscovite, orthoclase, and the sodium-rich plagioclase feldspars. The most common felsic rock is granite.
Frisians: The Frisians are an ethnic group of Germanic people living in coastal parts of The Netherlands, Denmark and Germany. They are concentrated in the Dutch provinces of Friesland and Groningen and, in Germany, East Frisia and North Frisia. They inhabit an area known as Frisia. They have a reputation for being tall, big-boned and light-haired people and they have a rich history and folklore.
Filippo Tommaso Marinetti: Filippo Tommaso Emilio Marinetti (December 22, 1876 - December 2, 1944) was an Italian ideologue, poet, editor, and founder of the Futurist movement.
Franz Mesmer: Franz Anton Mesmer (May 23, 1734 - March 5, 1815), born Friedrich Anton Mesmer, was a German physician and astrologist, who invented what he called magnisme animal and other spiritual forces often grouped together as mesmerism. The evolution of Mesmer's ideas and practices led Scottish surgeon James Braid to develop hypnosis in 1842. Mesmer's name is the root of the English verb "".
Foix-Alajouanine syndrome: Foix-Alajouanine syndrome is a disorder caused by an arteriovenous malformation of the spinal cord. The patients present with symptoms indicating spinal cord involvement (paralysis of arms and legs, numbness and loss of sensation and sphincter dysfunction), and pathological examination reveals disseminated nerve cell death in the spinal cord and abnormally dilated and tortuous vessels situated on the surface of the spinal cord. Surgical treatment can be tried in some cases.
Francesco Cossiga: Francesco Cossiga (born 26 July 1928) is an Italian politician and former Prime Minister and the eighth President of the Italian Republic. He was also a professor of law at University of Sassari.
Ferromagnetism: Ferromagnetism is the basic mechanism by which certain materials form permanent magnets, or are attracted to magnets. In physics, several different types of magnetism are distinguished. Ferromagnetism is the only type that can produce forces strong enough to be felt, and is responsible for the common phenomena of magnetism encountered in everyday life. One example is refrigerator magnets.
Food additive: Food additives are substances added to food to preserve flavour or improve its taste and appearance. Some additives have been used for centuries; for example, preserving food by pickling, salting, as with bacon, preserving sweets or using sulfur dioxide as in some wines. With the advent of processed foods in the second half of the 20th century, many more additives have been introduced, of both natural and artificial origin.
Fridtjof Nansen: Fridtjof Wedel-Jarlsberg Nansen (10 October 1861 - 13 May 1930) was a Norwegian explorer, scientist and diplomat. Nansen was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1922 for his work as a League of Nations High Commissioner. Fridtjof Nansen was born at Store Frn, near Oslo in 1861, the son of a prosperous lawyer. As a young man, he was an expert skater, swimmer and skier, excelling in drawing and sciences at school. He studied Zoology at the University of Oslo.
Frederick Augustus II of Saxony: Frederick Augustus II was King of Saxony and a member of the House of Wettin. He was the eldest son of Maximilian, Prince of Saxony --younger son of the Elector Frederick Christian of Saxonyby his first wife, Caroline of Bourbon, Princess of Parma.
F-35 Lightning II: The Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II is a fifth-generation, single-seat, single-engine stealth multirole fighter, that can perform close air support, tactical bombing, and air defense missions. The F-35 has three different models; one is a conventional takeoff and landing variant, the second is a short take off and vertical-landing variant, and the third is a carrier-based variant. The F-35 is descended from the X-35, the product of the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) program.
Ford GT40: The Ford GT40 was a high performance sports car and winner of the 24 hours of Le Mans four times in a row, from 1966 to 1969 (in 1967 with a different body, though). It was built to win long-distance sports car races against Ferrari (who won at Le Mans six times in a row from 1960 to 1965). That car used the Gurney Weslake engine with the special alloy heads made by Weslake.
Free market: A free market is a market without economic intervention and regulation by government except to regulate against force or fraud. This is the contemporary use of the terminology used by economists and in popular culture; the term has had other uses historically. A free market economy is an economy where all markets within in it are free.
Glycine: Glycine (abbreviated as Gly or G) is an organic compound with the formula NH2CH2COOH. With only a hydrogen atom as its side chain, glycine is the smallest of the 20 amino acids commonly found in proteins. Glycine is a colourless, sweet-tasting crystalline solid. It is unique among the proteinogenic amino acids in that it is not chiral. It can fit into hydrophilic or hydrophobic environments, due to its single hydrogen atom side chain.
GeekSpeak: GeekSpeak is a radio program on the Central Coast of California, broadcast weekly by KUSP in Santa Cruz, California since 1998 and distributed on the internet since 2002. It is one of the top five most popular tech podcasts on the NPR website and maintains a 5-star rating from iTunes listeners. GeekSpeak attempts to bridge the gap between geeks and the rest of humanity through an hour long talk radio program.
Gnutella: Gnutella was the first decentralized file sharing network. It will celebrate a decade of existence on March 14, 2010 and has a user base in the millions. In late 2007, it was the most popular file sharing network on the Internet with an estimated market share of more than 40%. In June 2005, Gnutella's population was 1.81 million computers increasing to over three million nodes by January of 2006.
George Lucas: George Walton Lucas, Jr. (born May 14, 1944) is an Academy Award-nominated American film producer, screenwriter, director and founder/chairman of Lucasfilm Ltd. He is best known for being the creator of the epic science fiction franchise Star Wars and joint creator of the archaeologist-adventurer character Indiana Jones. Today, Lucas is one of the American film industry's most financially successful independent directors/producers, with an estimated net worth of $3.0 billion as of 2009.
Guitar: The guitar is a musical instrument of the chordophone family, being a stringed instrument played by plucking, either with fingers or a pick. The guitar consists of a body with a rigid neck to which the strings, generally six in number but sometimes more, are attached. Guitars are traditionally constructed of various woods and strung with animal gut or, more recently, with either nylon or steel strings. Some modern guitars are made of polycarbonate materials.
Games: The term games is the plural of game, and may refer to:
Gotland County: Gotland County (Gotlands l) is a county or l of Sweden. Gotland is located in the Baltic sea to the east of and, and is the largest of Sweden's islands. Counties are usually sub-divided into municipalities, but Gotland County only consists of one municipality: Gotland Municipality. The difference between the two are only at an administrative level, as the county council and municipal council serve different tasks. Both have their seat in the largest city Visby, with 22,000 inhabitants.
Global Positioning System: The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a U.S. space-based global navigation satellite system. It provides reliable positioning, navigation, and timing services to worldwide users on a continuous basis in all weather, day and night, anywhere on or near the Earth which has an unobstructed view of four or more GPS satellites. GPS is made up of three segments: Space, Control and User.
Gothenburg: Gothenburg is the second-largest city in Sweden and the fifth-largest amongst the Nordic countries. Situated on the south-west coast of Sweden, the city proper has a population of 507,330 with 510,491 in the urban area and total of 917,984 inhabitants in the metropolitan area. The City of Gothenburg was founded in 1621 by King Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden. It is situated by the sea at the mouth of Ga vthe river running through the cityand is the largest sea port of the Nordic countries.
Guatemala City: Guatemala City (in full, La Nueva Guatemala de la Asunci; locally known as Guatemala or Guate), is the capital and largest city of the Republic of Guatemala. It is also the capital city of the local Guatemala Department and the largest city in Central America and the Caribbean. The city is located at 1438N 9033W; / ;14.633 90.55; / 14.633; -90.55, in a mountain valley called Valle de la Ermita in the south central part of the country.
Gradualism: Gradualism is the belief that changes occur, or ought to occur, slowly in the form of gradual steps
GNU: GNU is a computer operating system composed entirely of free software. Its name is a recursive acronym for GNU's Not Unix! This name was chosen because GNU's design is Unix-like, but differs from Unix by being free software and containing no Unix code. Development of GNU was initiated by Richard Stallman and was the original focus of the Free Software Foundation (FSF).
Greek: Greek may refer to anything of, from, or related to the country of Greece. Greek may refer specifically to: Greece (or specific earlier stages of its history) Ancient Greece Medieval Greece Ottoman Greece Greeks, an ethnic group Greek language, or more specifically: Mycenaean Greek, (16th to 11th centuries BC) Ancient Greek, (c. 1000-330 BC) Koine Greek or Alexandrian, Hellenistic, Common, New Testament Greek, (c.
Germany: Germany, officially the Federal Republic of Germany, is a country in Central Europe. It is bordered to the north by the North Sea, Denmark, and the Baltic Sea; to the east by Poland and the Czech Republic; to the south by Austria and Switzerland; and to the west by France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands. The territory of Germany covers 357,021 square kilometers (137,847 sq mi) and is influenced by a temperate seasonal climate.
Golem: In Jewish folklore, a golem is an animated anthropomorphic being created entirely from inanimate matter. In modern Hebrew the word golem literally means "rock," but can also mean "fool," "dumb," or even "stupid. " It meant amorphous, unformed material in Psalms and medieval writing. The most famous golem narrative involves Judah Loew ben Bezalel, the late 16th century chief rabbi of Prague.
Germanic languages: The Germanic languages are a group of related languages that constitute a branch of the Indo-European (IE) language family. The common ancestor of all the languages in this branch is Proto-Germanic, spoken in approximately the mid-1st millennium BC in Iron Age northern Europe. Proto-Germanic, along with all of its descendants, is characterized by a number of unique linguistic features, most famously the consonant change known as Grimm's law.
Greek language: Greek, an independent branch of the Indo-European family of languages, is the language of the Greeks. Native to the southern Balkans, it has the longest documented history of any Indo-European language, spanning 34 centuries of written records. In its ancient form, it is the language of classical ancient Greek literature and the New Testament of the Christian Bible. In its modern form, it is the official language of Greece and Cyprus and one of the 23 official languages of the European Union.
German language: German is a West Germanic language, thus related to and classified alongside English and Dutch. It is one of the world's major languages and the most widely spoken first language in the European Union. Globally, German is spoken by approximately 105 million native speakers and also by about 80 million non-native speakers. Standard German is widely taught in schools, universities and Goethe Institutes worldwide.
Gambling: Gambling is the of money or something of material value on an event with an uncertain outcome with the primary intent of winning additional money and/or material goods. Typically, the outcome of the wager is evident within a short period. The term gaming in this context typically refers to instances in which the activity has been specifically permitted by law. The two words are not mutually exclusive; i.e. , a gaming company offers (legal) gambling activities to the public.
George Orwell: Eric Arthur Blair (25 June 1903 - 21 January 1950), better known by his pen name George Orwell, was an English novelist and journalist. His work is marked by keen intelligence and wit, a profound awareness of social injustice, an intense, revolutionary opposition to totalitarianism, a passion for clarity in language and a belief in democratic socialism.
Game theory: Game theory is a branch of applied mathematics that is used in the social sciences, most notably in economics, as well as in biology, engineering, political science, international relations, computer science, and philosophy. Game theory attempts to mathematically capture behavior in strategic situations, in which an individual's success in making choices depends on the choices of others.
Demographics of Germany: The Demographics of Germany were determined also by a series of full Census in Germany, with the most recent held in 1987. Since reunification, German authorities rely on a micro census. This article is about the demographic features of the population of Germany, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
List of Greek words with English derivatives: This is a list of Greek words with derivatives in English. The words are in Greek alphabetic order, with tables for the 24 Greek letters, listing thousands of related English words. Contents Transliteration Greek Words with Modern Derivatives See also External links
Goeldi's Marmoset: Goeldi's Marmoset or Goeldi's Monkey (Callimico goeldii) is a small, South American New World monkey that lives in the upper Amazon Basin region of Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. It is the only species classified in the genus Callimico, and the monkeys are sometimes referred to as "callimicos". Goeldi's Marmosets are blackish or blackish-brown in color and the hair on their head and tail sometimes has red, white, or silverly brown highlights.
Economy of Germany: Germany is the largest national economy in Europe, the fourth-largest by nominal GDP in the world, and fifth by GDP (PPP) in 2008. Since the age of industrialisation, the country has been a driver, innovator, and beneficiary of an ever more globalised economy. Germany is the world's second largest exporter with $1.170 trillion exported in 2009 (Eurozone countries are included). Exports account for more than one-third of national output.
Transport in Germany: As a densely populated country in a central location in Europe and with a developed economy, Germany has a dense and modern transportation infrastructure. The first highway system to have been built, the extensive German Autobahn network famously features sections where no speed limit is in force. The country's most important waterway is the river Rhine. The largest port is that of Hamburg. Frankfurt Airport is a major international airport and European transportation hub.
Military of Germany disambiguation: Military of Germany may refer to: Reichswehr (1919-1935), armed forces of the German Empire Wehrmacht (1935-1945), armed forces of Nazi Germany Bundeswehr (since 1955), armed forces of the Federal Republic of Germany National People's Army (1956-1990), armed forces of the former German Democratic Republic
Telecommunications in Germany: Telephones - main lines in use: NA; 46.5 million main lines are installed (July 1999) Telephones - mobile cellular: ca. 84 million (August 2006) Telephone system: Germany has one of the world's most technologically advanced telecommunications systems.
Foreign relations of Germany: The Federal Republic of Germany is a Central European country and member of the European Union, Group of 8 and NATO (among others). Germany is one of the world's leading industrialized countries and biggest market economy in Europe, with "windows to the East and West". Since reunification in 1990, Germany has further extended its commitments and central position in European and global affairs.
Politics of Germany: Politics of Germany take place in a framework of a federal parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Chancellor is the head of government, and of a plurality multi-party system. Federal legislative power is vested in the parliament and the Bundesrat as the representation of the regional states. Since 1949, the party system has been dominated by the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD).
History of geometry: Geometry (Greek ; geo = earth, metria = measure) arose as the field of knowledge dealing with spatial relationships. Geometry was one of the two fields of pre-modern mathematics, the other being the study of numbers. Classic geometry was focused in compass and straightedge constructions. Geometry was revolutionized by Euclid, who introduced mathematical rigor and the axiomatic method still in use today.
Galileo Galilei: Galileo Galilei (15 February 1564 - 8 January 1642) was an Italian physicist, mathematician, astronomer, and philosopher who played a major role in the Scientific Revolution. His achievements include improvements to the telescope and consequent astronomical observations, and support for Copernicanism. Galileo has been called the "father of modern observational astronomy," the "father of modern physics," the "father of science," and "the Father of Modern Science.
George Berkeley: George Berkeley (12 March 1685 - 14 January 1753), also known as Bishop Berkeley (Bishop of Cloyne), was an Anglo-Irish philosopher whose primary achievement was the advancement of a theory he called "immaterialism" (later referred to as "subjective idealism" by others). This theory contends that individuals can only know directly sensations and ideas of objects, not abstractions such as "matter".
George H. W. Bush: George Herbert Walker Bush (born June 12, 1924) was the 41st President of the United States (1989-1993). He was also Ronald Reagan's Vice President (1981-1989), a congressman, an ambassador, and Director of Central Intelligence. Bush was born in Massachusetts to Senator and New York Banker Prescott Bush and Dorothy Walker Bush. Following the attacks on Pearl Harbor in 1941, at the age of 18, Bush postponed going to college and became the youngest naval aviator in the US Navy at the time.
G. E. Moore: George Edward Moore OM, usually known as G. E. Moore, (4 November 1873 - 24 October 1958) was a distinguished and influential English philosopher. He was, with Bertrand Russell, Ludwig Wittgenstein, and (before them) Gottlob Frege, one of the founders of the analytic tradition in philosophy.
Gods disambiguation: Gods as the plural of god, is a synonym of "deities", indicating a context of polytheism. God (male deity) Goddess List of deities proper names The gods (theatrical), the upper levels of a theatre The Gods (band), a rock band from England Gods (video game) Gods of Metal, a music festival in Italy
Firearm: A firearm is a device which projects either single or multiple projectiles at high velocity through a controlled explosion. The firing is achieved by the gases produced through rapid, confined burning of a propellant. This process of rapid burning is technically known as deflagration. In older firearms, this propellant was typically black powder, but modern firearms use smokeless powder, cordite, or other propellants.
Genus differentia definition: A genus-differentia definition is one in which a word or concept that indicates a species -- a specific type of item, not necessarily a biological categoryis described first by a broader category, the genus, then distinguished from other items in that category by a differentia. The differentiae of a species are the species' properties that other members of the genus do not have.
Gulf Coast of the United States: The Gulf Coast of the United States, sometimes referred to as the Gulf South or South Coast, comprises the coasts of American states that are on the Gulf of Mexico. These states are Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida and are known as the Gulf States. All Gulf States are located in the Southern region of the United States. The Gulf Coast is a highly productive economic region with many industries relating to fishing, aerospace, agriculture, biomedical research, and tourism.
George Washington: George Washington (February 22, 1732 - December 14, 1799) served as the first President of the United States from 1789 to 1797 and as the commander of the Continental Army in the American Revolutionary War from 1775 to 1783. Because of his significant role in the revolution and in the formation of the United States, he is often referred to as "Father of His Country". The Continental Congress appointed Washington commander-in-chief of the American revolutionary forces in 1775.
Generation X: Generation X, commonly abbreviated to Gen X, is the generation born after the baby boom ended, with earliest birth dates used by researchers ranging from 1961 to the latest 1981. The term Generation X has been used in demography, the social sciences, and marketing, though it is most often used in popular culture.
Galaxy formation and evolution: The study of galaxy formation and evolution is concerned with the processes that formed a heterogeneous universe from a homogeneous beginning, the formation of the first galaxies, the way galaxies change over time, and the processes that have generated the variety of structures observed in nearby galaxies. It is one of the most active research areas in astrophysics.
Game Boy line: The Game Boy line is a line of battery-powered handheld game consoles sold by Nintendo. It is one of the world's best-selling game system lines with a combined 200+ million units sold worldwide. The original Game Boy and Game Boy Color combined sold 118.69 million units worldwide. As of December 31, 2009, all versions of the Game Boy Advance combined have sold 81.50 million units.
Gemini 10: Gemini 10 (officially Gemini X) was a 1966 manned spaceflight in NASA's Gemini program. It was the 8th manned Gemini flight, the 16th manned American flight and the 24th spaceflight of all time (includes X-15 flights over 100 km).
Gardening: Gardening is the practice of growing plants. Ornamental plants are normally grown for their flowers, foliage, overall appearance, or for their dyes. Useful plants are grown for consumption or for medicinal use. A gardener is someone who practices gardening.
Graffiti: Graffiti is the name for images or lettering scratched, scrawled, painted or marked in any manner on property. Graffiti is any type of public markings that may appear in the forms of simple written words to elaborate wall paintings. Graffiti has existed since ancient times, with examples dating back to Ancient Greece and the Roman Empire. In modern times, spray paint, normal paint and markers have become the most commonly used materials.
King Kong vs. Godzilla: King Kong vs. Godzilla is a 1962 tokusatsu kaiju film directed by Ishiro Honda with visual effects by Eiji Tsuburaya. It was the third installment in the Japanese series of monster films featuring the monster Godzilla. It was also the first of two Japanese made films featuring the King Kong character and also the first time both King Kong and Godzilla appeared in color and in the same film.
Guam: Guam is an island in the western Pacific Ocean and is an organized, unincorporated territory of the United States. It is one of five U.S. territories with an established civilian government. The island's capital is Hag (formerly Agana). Guam is the largest and southernmost of the Mariana Islands. The Chamorros, Guam's indigenous people, first populated the island approximately 4,000 years ago. The island has a long history of European colonialism.
Godzilla vs. the Sea Monster: Godzilla vs. the Sea Monster, released in Japan as Godzilla, Ebirah, Mothra: Big Duel in the South Seas (, Gojira, Ebira, Mosura Nankai no Daikett) and known internationally as Ebirah, Horror of the Deep, is a 1966 kaiju/tokusatsu film directed by Jun Fukuda and written by Shinichi Sekizawa. The special effects were directed by Eiji Tsuburaya. It is the seventh film in the original Godzilla series.
Son of Godzilla: Son of Godzilla, released in Japan as Monster Island's Decisive Battle: Godzilla's Son ( , Kaij-shima no Kessen Gojira no Musuko), is a 1967 film. The eighth part of the Toho studio's Godzilla series, it was directed by Jun Fukuda with special effects by Eiji Tsuburaya and Sadamasa Arikawa. It is the first film to feature Kamacuras, Kumonga, and Minilla.
Destroy All Monsters: Destroy All Monsters, released in Japan as Attack of the Marching Monsters, is a 1968 daikaiju eiga (Monster Movie). The ninth in Toho Studios' Godzilla series, it was directed by Ishiro Honda with special effects by Eiji Tsuburaya and Sadamasa Arikawa. This was the last Godzilla film in the Showa series to receive positive fan reaction, as the last six Godzilla films have received negative to mixed fan reaction over the years.
Godzilla: Godzilla is a daikaij, a fictional Japanese giant monster. His first film was Ishiro Honda's 1954 film Gojira, and since then, he has made many more appearances, and has become a pop-culture icon. In total, Godzilla has appeared in 28 films, all of which were produced by Toho Company Ltd. Godzilla has also appeared in numerous comic books, video games, novels and even an American remake.
Godzilla vs. Megalon: Godzilla vs. Megalon is a 1973 Japanese tokusatsu kaiju film directed and co-written by Jun Fukuda with special effects by Teruyoshi Nakano. It was the thirteenth film to be released in the Godzilla franchise. It is the second film to feature Gigan and the first and only film to feature Megalon and Jet Jaguar.
Godzilla vs. Biollante: Godzilla vs. Biollante is a 1989 kaiju film written and directed by Kazuki mori. It was the seventeenth film to be released in the Godzilla franchise and the second in terms of the franchise's Heisei period. The film is set after the events of The Return of Godzilla. This is the first and only film to feature Biollante.
Terror of Mechagodzilla: Terror of Mechagodzilla, released in Japan as Mechagodzilla's Counterattack, is a 1975 tokusatsu kaiju film. The film was titled The Terror of Godzilla in its original American theatrical release. The 15th film in Toho's Godzilla series, it was directed by Ishiro Honda with special effects by Teruyoshi Nakano. It is the second film to feature Mechagodzilla and the only film to feature Titanosaurus. Akira Ifukube provides the music score.
Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah: Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah, alternatively spelled Godzilla vs. King Ghidora, is the 18th installment in the Godzilla series of films. This is the fifth film to feature King Ghidorah and the only film to feature Mecha-King Ghidorah. The movie was released theatrically in Japan on December 14, 1991. It was directed by Kazuki Omori and produced by Shogo Tomiyama. The special effects provided by Koichi Kawakita was also another highlight in the credits.
Godzilla 1954 film: Godzilla is a successful landmark 1954 Japanese Kaiju science fiction film directed and co-written by Ishiro Honda with special effects by Eiji Tsuburaya, produced and distributed by Toho Company Ltd. In 1956, a heavily edited version was released in the U.S. as Godzilla, King of the Monsters!. The original Japanese version is now available in the country under the title Gojira. It was the first of many "giant monster" movies to be produced in Japan, many of which also feature Godzilla.
Godzilla vs. Mothra: Godzilla and Mothra: The Battle for Earth, released in Japan as Godzilla vs. Mothra, is the 19th installment in the Godzilla series of films. It is the sixth film to feature Mothra and the only film to feature Battra. The movie was released theatrically in Japan on December 12, 1992. It was directed by Takao Okawara from a screenplay by Kazuki Omori, produced by Tomoyuki Tanaka and Shogo Tomiyama, with special effects provided by Koichi Kawakita.
The Return of Godzilla: The Return of Godzilla, released as Godzilla in Japan and edited into Godzilla 1985 in America, is a 1984 daikaiju film. The sixteenth film in Toho's Godzilla series, it was produced by Tomoyuki Tanaka and directed by Koji Hashimoto with special effects by Teruyoshi Nakano. This was the first in the Heisei Series of Godzilla films, despite being filmed in the Showa Era. It was Tanaka's intent to restore the darker themes and mood of the early films in the series.
Johann Gottlieb Fichte: Johann Gottlieb Fichte (May 19, 1762 - January 27, 1814) was a German philosopher. He was one of the founding figures of the philosophical movement known as German idealism, a movement that developed from the theoretical and ethical writings of Immanuel Kant. Fichte is often perceived as a figure whose philosophy forms a bridge between the ideas of Kant and the German Idealist Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.
Great Lakes: The Great Lakes are a collection of freshwater lakes located in eastern North America, on the Canada - United States border. Consisting of Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario, they form the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth by surface. They are sometimes referred to as the North Coast or "Third Coast" by some citizens of the United States.
Gun safety: Gun safety is a collection of rules and recommendations that can be applied when handling firearms. The purpose of gun safety is to eliminate or minimize the risks of unintentional death, injury or damage caused by improper handling of firearms.
Girth graph theory: In graph theory, the girth of a graph is the length of a shortest cycle contained in the graph. If the graph does not contain any cycles, its girth is defined to be infinity. For example, a 4-cycle (square) has girth 4. A grid has girth 4 as well, and a triangular mesh has girth 3. A graph with girth >3 is triangle-free.
Gratis: Gratis is the process of providing goods or services without compensation. It is often referred to in English as "free of charge" or "complimentary". It is commonly acknowledged that there are costs associated with everything, hence the adage "There Ain't No Such Thing As A Free Lunch"; however, it is often practical for companies, producers, and service providers to provide certain things free of charge as part of a larger business model or pricing strategy.
Genealogy: Genealogy is the study of families and the tracing of their lineages and history. Genealogists use oral traditions, historical records, genetic analysis, and other records to obtain information about a family and to demonstrate kinship and pedigrees of its members. The results are often displayed in charts or written as narratives.
Gabon: Gabon is a country in west central Africa sharing borders with the Gulf of Guinea to the west, Equatorial Guinea to the northwest, and Cameroon to the north, with the Republic of the Congo curving around the east and south. Its size is almost 270,000 km with an estimated population of\t1,500,000. The capital and largest city is Libreville. Since its independence from France on August 17, 1960, the Republic has been ruled by three presidents.
Go Down Moses: "Go Down Moses" is an American Negro spiritual. It describes events in the Old Testament of the Bible, specifically Exodus 7:26: "And the Lord spoke unto Moses, go unto Pharaoh, and say unto him, thus saith the Lord, Let my people go, that they may serve me", in which God commands Moses to demand the release of the Israelites from bondage in Egypt.
General relativity: General relativity or the general theory of relativity is the geometric theory of gravitation published by Albert Einstein in 1915. It is the current description of gravitation in modern physics. It unifies special relativity and Newton's law of universal gravitation, and describes gravity as a geometric property of space and time, or spacetime. In particular, the curvature of spacetime is directly related to the four-momentum of whatever matter and radiation are present.
Geography of Gabon: Gabon is a country in West Africa, lying along the Atlantic Ocean, just south of the Bight of Biafra.
Politics of Gabon: Politics of Gabon takes place in a framework of a republic whereby the President of Gabon is head of state and the prime minister is the chief of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament. Since independence the party system is dominated by the conservative Gabonese Democratic Party. In March 1991 a new constitution was adopted.
History of Gabon: There is little written history of Gabon prior to European contact, but various Bantu peoples are known to have immigrated to the area beginning in the 1300s. Portuguese traders who arrived in the 15th century named the country after the Portuguese word gab, a coat with sleeve and hood resembling the shape of the Komo River estuary. The coast subsequently became a center of the slave trade with Dutch, English, and French traders arriving in the 16th century.
Demographics of Gabon: Population: 1,424,906 note: Estimates for this country explicitly take into account the effects of excess mortality due to AIDS; this can result in lower life expectancy, higher infant mortality and death rates, lower population and growth rates, and changes in the distribution of population by age and sex than would otherwise be expected (July 2006 est.
Telecommunications in Gabon: Communications in Gabon, a West African nation, consists of a number of methods.
Transport in Gabon: Until the 1970s, Gabon had no railroads. A 936km railroad construction program, the Trans-Gabon Railway, began in October 1974. In its first stage, completed in 1983, the project linked the port of Owendo with the interior city of Boou (332 km). The second stage, completed in December 1986, linked Boou with Franceville (357 km) via Moanda, thus facilitating exports of manganese from the southeast and forestry exploitation in the same region.
Foreign relations of Gabon: Gabon has followed a non-aligned policy, advocating dialogue in international affairs and recognizing both parts of divided countries. Since 1973, the number of countries establishing diplomatic relations with Gabon has doubled. In inter-African affairs, Gabon espouses development by evolution rather than revolution and favors regulated free enterprise as the system most likely to promote rapid economic growth.
Economy of Gabon: Gabon enjoys a per capita income four times that of most nations of sub-Saharan Africa. This has supported a sharp decline in extreme poverty; yet because of high income inequality a large proportion of the population remains poor.
Military of Gabon: The African country of Gabon has a small, professional military of about 500,000 personnel, divided into army, navy, air force, gendarmerie, and national police. Gabonese forces are oriented to the defense of the country and have been trained for an offensive role. A well-trained, well-equipped 1,800-member guard provides security for the president.
Political status of the West Bank and Gaza Strip: The political status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip is one of the most violently disputed issues in the Arab-Israeli conflict. Various conferences and negotiations have been conducted to determine the status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
Geography of Georgia country: The geography of Georgia entails the physical and human geography of Georgia, a country in the Caucasus region of Eurasia. Situated at the juncture of Western Asia and Eastern Europe, it is bounded to the west by the Black Sea, to the north by Russia, to the south by Turkey and Armenia, and to the east by Azerbaijan. Georgia covers an area of 69,875 km.
Demographics of Georgia country: The Demographics of Georgia is about the demographic features of the population of Georgia, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population.
Economy of Georgia country: Despite the severe damage the economy of Georgia suffered due to civil strife in the 1990s, Georgia, with the help of the IMF and World Bank, has made substantial economic gains since 2000, achieving robust GDP growth and curtailing inflation. GDP growth, spurred by gains in the industrial and service sectors, remained in the 9-12% range in 2005-07. In 2006 and in 2008, the World Bank named Georgia the top reformer in the world.
Politics of Georgia country: The Politics of Georgia is structured as a presidential representative democratic republic, with a multi-party system, and the President as the head of state and the Prime Minister as the head of the Georgian Government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Federal legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. Since the Rose Revolution, the party system is dominated by the National Movement - Democrats.
Telecommunications in Georgia: Telephones - main lines in use: 554,000 (1995) Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,400,000 (2007) Telephone system: domestic: Country has three cellular telephone networks of GSM 900 and 1800 standard and two UMTS 2100 standard: MagtiCom LTD, Geocell LTD and Mobitel
Gaza Strip: The Gaza Strip lies on the Eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea. It borders Egypt on the southwest and Israel on the south, east and north. It is about 41 kilometers long, and between 6 and 12 kilometers (4-7.5 mi) wide, with a total area of 360 square kilometers. This piece of land is home to about 1.5 million Palestinians. Many of these people lived in other parts of Palestine prior to the 1947 - 49 Israeli War of Independence, when they had to flee.
Georgian Armed Forces: The Georgian Armed Forces, is the name of the unified armed forces of Georgia. The Georgian military is a defence force consisting of an Georgian Land Forces, Georgian Air Force and a paramilitary organization Georgian National Guard. The national defence policy aims which are based on the Constitution of Georgia are to guarantee the preservation of the independence and sovereignty of the state and the integrity of its land area, territorial waters and airspace and its constitutional order.
Foreign relations of Georgia: Disputes - international: Georgia relationships with Russia are at it lowest point in modern history due to Georgian-Russian espionage controversy and due to the 2008 South Ossetia war, Georgia broke off diplomatic relations with Russia and has left the Commonwealth of Independent States.
Ghana: The Republic of Ghana, located in West Africa, borders Ce d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast) to the west, Burkina Faso to the north, Togo to the east, and the Gulf of Guinea to the south. The word Ghana means "Warrior King" and derives from the Ghana Empire. Ghana was inhabited in pre-colonial times by a number of ancient predominantly Akan Kingdoms, including the Akwamu on the eastern coast, the inland Ashanti Empire and various Fante and non-Akan states, like the Ga and Ewe, along the coast and inland.
Geography of Ghana: Ghana is a country in West Africa, along the Gulf of Guinea, just a few degrees north of the equator.
Demographics of Ghana: The Demography of Ghana describes the condition and overview of Ghana's peoples. Demographic topics include basic education, health, and population statistics as well as identified racial and religious affiliations. This article is about the demographic features of the population of Ghana, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Telecommunications in Ghana: Telephones - fixed lines: 360,375 (December 2006, National Communications Authority). Penetration 1.6%. Telephones - mobile subscribers: 5,900,000 (2007).
Transport in Georgia country: total: 1,683 km in common carrier service; does not include industrial lines broad gauge: 1,583 km of 1,520 mm (4 ft 11+6 in) gauge (1993) narrow gauge: 100 km of 610 mm (2 ft) gauge. City with metro system: Tbilisi. In April 2005, an agreement was signed to build a railway from Turkey through Georgia to Azerbaijan probably using 1,435 mm (4 ft 8+2 in) supposedly so that it can eventually link with China. One Georgian border station is Akhalkalaki.
Transport in Ghana: Transport in Ghana is accomplished by road, rail, air and water. Ghana's transportation and communications networks are centered in the southern regions, especially the areas in which gold, cocoa, and timber are produced. The northern and central areas are connected through a major road system; some areas, however, remain relatively isolated.
Foreign relations of Ghana: Ghana is active in the United Nations and many of its specialized agencies, the World Trade Organization, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Organization of African Unity (OAU), what is now is the African Union (AU) and the Economic Community of West African States. Generally, it follows the consensus of the Nonaligned Movement and the OAU on economic and political issues not directly affecting its own interests.
Military of Ghana: Military of Ghana Military manpower Military age18 years of age(2002) Availabilitymales age 15-49: 5,045,355 (2002 est. )Fit for military servicemales age 15-49: 5,045,355 (2002 est. ) Reaching military age annuallymales: 213,237 (2002 est. ) Military expenditures Dollar figure $90.5 million (FY01) Percent of GDP.001% (FY01) The Military of Ghana consists of the Army, Navy, Air Force, National Police Force, Palace Guard, and Civil Defence.
History of Gibraltar: The history of Gibraltar portrays how The Rock gained an importance and a reputation far exceeding its size, influencing and shaping the people who came to reside here over the centuries.
Demographics of Gibraltar: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Gibraltar, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Economy of Ghana: The economy of Ghana, West Africa, has a diverse and rich resource base, and as such, has one of the highest GDP per capita in Africa. Ghana remains somewhat dependent on international financial and technical assistance as well as the activities of the extensive Ghanaian diaspora. Gold, timber, cocoa, diamond, bauxite, and manganese exports are major sources of foreign exchange. An oilfield which is reported to contain up to 3 billion barrels (48010^ m) of light oil was discovered in 2007.
Economy of Gibraltar: The economy of Gibraltar is managed and controlled by the Government of Gibraltar. Whilst being part of the European Union, the British overseas territory of Gibraltar has a separate legal jurisdiction from the United Kingdom and enjoys a different tax system. The role of the UK Ministry of Defence, which at one time was Gibraltar's main source of income, has declined, with today's economy mainly based on shipping, tourism, financial services, and the Internet.
Communications in Gibraltar: The first telephones were introduced in 1886 by a private company which was later taken over by the Government of Gibraltar and until 1990, all telephone services were operated by the Telephone Department. International circuits were provided by Cable & Wireless originally founded as the Falmouth, Gibraltar and Malta Cable Company, in 1869. This later operated as the Eastern Telegraph Company from Mount Pleasant, Gibraltar.
Politics of Gibraltar: Gibraltar is represented in the European Union, having been the only British overseas territory which joined the EC under the British Treaty of Accession (1973). The government of Spain continues with an irredentist territorial claim to Gibraltar, which was ceded in perpetuity to the British Crown in 1713 by the of the Treaty of Utrecht. In a referendum held in 2002, a proposal for shared sovereignty was overwhelmingly rejected by the Gibraltar electorate with 98.97% voting against.
Transport in Gibraltar: Gibraltar has a limited public transport system, due to the small size of the territory and the impact of the constitutional dispute with Spain.
Gda sk: Gdask, formerly known by its German name Danzig, is a city on the Baltic coast in northern Poland, at the centre of the country's fourth-largest metropolitan area. Gdask is Poland's principal seaport as well as the capital of the Pomeranian Voivodeship. It is also historically the largest city of the Kashubian region.
Graviton: In physics, the graviton is a hypothetical elementary particle that mediates the force of gravity in the framework of quantum field theory. If it exists, the graviton must be massless (because the gravitational force has unlimited range) and must have a spin of 2 (because the source of gravity is the stress-energy tensor, which is a second-rank tensor, compared to electromagnetism, the source of which is the four-current, which is a first-rank tensor).
Gulf of Finland: The Gulf of Finland is the easternmost arm of the Baltic Sea that extends between Finland (to the north) and Estonia (to the south) all the way to Saint Petersburg in Russia, where the river Neva drains into it. Other major cities around the gulf include Helsinki and Tallinn. The eastern parts of the Gulf of Finland belong to Russia, and some of Russia's most important oil harbours are located farthest in, near Saint Petersburg.
G ta Canal: The Ga Canal is a Swedish canal constructed in the early 19th century. It formed the backbone of a waterway stretching some 382 miles (614 km), linking a number of lakes and rivers to provide a route from Gothenburg on the west coast to Serking on the Baltic Sea via the river Ga v and the Trollhte kanal, through the large lakes Vern and Vtern.
Golden Gate Bridge: The Golden Gate Bridge is a suspension bridge spanning the Golden Gate, the opening of the San Francisco Bay into the Pacific Ocean. As part of both U.S. Route 101 and California State Route 1, it connects the city of San Francisco on the northern tip of the San Francisco Peninsula to Marin County.
General Motors: General Motors Company, also known as GM, is a United States based automaker with headquarters in Detroit, Michigan. By sales, GM ranked as the largest U.S. automaker and the world's second largest for 2008. GM had the third highest 2008 global revenues among automakers on the Fortune Global 500. GM manufactures cars and trucks in 34 countries, recently employed 244,500 people around the world, and sells and services vehicles in some 140 countries.
Guglielmo Marconi: Marchese Guglielmo Marconi (25 April 1874- 20 July 1937) was an Italian inventor, best known for his development of a radiotelegraph system, which served as the foundation for the establishment of numerous affiliated companies worldwide. He shared the 1909 Nobel Prize in Physics with Karl Ferdinand Braun, "in recognition of their contributions to the development of wireless telegraphy".
Gulf: A gulf is a large bay that is an arm of an ocean or sea. For example, the Gulf of Mexico is the tenth largest body of water in the world.
G ta lv: The Ga v is a river that drains lake Vern into Kattegat at the city of Gothenburg on the western coast of Sweden. It is located in Galand, with the river itself being a site of early Geatish settlement. The length is 93 km. Often the combination of Ga v and Klarven (a river ending at Vern) is mentioned. This combination is the longest river in the Nordic countries, 750 km. The Bohus Fortress is located by the river at Kungv.
Demographics of Greece: The Demographics of Greece refer to the demography of the population that inhabits the Greek peninsula. As of January 2008, the population of Greece is estimated at 11,262,000 by Eurostat.
Economy of Greece: The economy of Greece is the twenty-seventh largest economy in the world by nominal gross domestic product (GDP) and the thirty-third largest by purchasing power parity, according to the data given by the International Monetary Fund for the year 2008. Its GDP per capita is the twenty-seventh highest in the world, while its GDP PPP per capita is the twenty-sixth highest.
Politics of Greece: The Politics of Greece takes place in a large parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Greece is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Hellenic Parliament.
Military of Greece: The armed forces of Greece consist of: The Hellenic National Defense General Staff The Hellenic Army The Hellenic Navy The Hellenic Air Force The civilian authority for the Greek military is the Ministry of National Defense. Greece currently has universal compulsory military service for males, under which all men above 18 years of age serve for 9 months. Women may serve in the Greek military, but cannot be conscripted.
Greece: Greece, also known as Hellas and officially the Hellenic Republic, is a country in southeastern Europe, situated on the southern end of the Balkan Peninsula. The country has land borders with Albania, the Republic of Macedonia and Bulgaria to the north, and Turkey to the east. The Aegean Sea lies to the east of mainland Greece, the Ionian Sea to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the south.
Transport in Greece: Transport in Greece has undergone significant changes in the past two decades, vastly modernizing the country's infrastructure. Although ferry transport between islands remains the prominent method of transport between the nations islands, improvements to the road infrastructure, rail, urban transport, and airports have all led to a vast improvement in transportation.
Foreign relations of Greece: Prominent issues in Greek foreign policy include the enduring dispute over Cyprus and differences with Turkey over the Aegean, the dispute over the name of the Republic of Macedonia (recognized by Greece under the provisional denomination the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia), and relations with the United States.
Geography of Greenland: Maritime claims: exclusive fishing zone: 200 nautical miles territorial sea: 3 nautical miles
Greenland: Greenland is an autonomous country within the Kingdom of Denmark, located between the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans, east of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. Though physiographically a part of the continent of North America, Greenland has been politically associated with Europe for about a millennium.
Demographics of Greenland: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Greenland, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Greenland: Politics of Greenland takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic Danish dependency, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Greenland is a self-governing overseas administrative division of Denmark since 1979. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Parliament of Greenland (known as Landsting).
Telecommunications in Greenland: Greenland has, by law, only one service provider for telecommunications and internet, TELE Greenland, which is fully owned by the Greenlandic Home Rule government. TELE Greenland provides switched telephone and data, land mobile communications, VHF and MF shore-to-ship communication, and television and radio broadcasting. This type of monopoly is not uncommon in Greenland.
Economy of Greenland: The Economy of Greenland suffered negative growth in the early 1990s, but since 1993 the economy has improved. The Greenland Home Rule Government (GHRG) has pursued a tight fiscal policy since the late 1980s which has helped create surpluses in the public budget and low inflation. Since 1990, Greenland has registered a foreign trade deficit following the closure of the last remaining lead and zinc mine in 1990.
Transportation in Greenland: The transportation system in Greenland is very unusual in that Greenland has no railways, no inland waterways, and virtually no roads between towns. There are 150 km (90 mi) of roads in the whole country; 60 km (40 mi) of the roads are paved. Only two towns are connected by a road, Ivittuut and Kangilinnguit; the rest are isolated. Historically the major means of transportation has been by boat around the coast in summer and by dog sled in winter, particularly in the north and east.
Military of Greenland: The government of Greenland does not currently have control of Greenland's military or foreign affairs. The defense of Greenland is the responsibility of Denmark. However, following the November 2008 referendum on increased autonomy, which attracted significant popular support (72% turnout, 75% vote in favour) the governments of Greenland and Denmark have agreed to a 30-point package which will begin to reverse these particulars.
Foreign relations of Greenland: Being part of the Kingdom of Denmark, the foreign relations of Greenland are handled in cooperation with the Danish government and Greenlandic home rule authority. Unlike Denmark proper, Greenland is no longer part of the European Union. Disputes - international: Qaanaaq (formerly Thule) is a sensitive area. Uncontested dispute with Canada over Hans Island sovereignty in the Kennedy Channel between Canadian Ellesmere Island and Greenland.
Glorioso Islands: The Glorieuses or Glorioso Islands are a group of French islands and rocks totalling 5 square kilometres (1,200 acres), at 1133S 4720E; / ;11.55 47.333; / -11.55; 47.333Coordinates: 1133S 4720E; / ;11.55 47.333; / -11.55; 47.333, in the northern Mozambique channel, about 160 kilometres (99 mi) northwest of Madagascar. The Glorieuses have an Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of 48,350 square kilometres (18,670 sq mi).
History of Grenada: About 2 million years ago Grenada was formed as an underwater volcano. Before the arrival of Europeans, Grenada, was inhabited by Carib Indians who had driven the more peaceful Arawaks from the island. Columbus sighted Grenada in 1498 during his third voyage to the new world. He named the island "Concepcion. " The origin of the name "Grenada" is obscure, but it is likely that Spanish sailors renamed the island for the city of Granada.
Demographics of Grenada: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Grenada, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Though most of Grenada's population is of African descent, there is some trace of the early Arawak and Carib Indians. A few Indo-Grenadians and a small community of the descendants of early European settlers reside in Grenada.
Politics of Grenada: Politics of Grenada takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Grenada is an independent country and Commonwealth Realm. It is a parliamentary democracy whose political and legal traditions closely follow those of the United Kingdom. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament.
Transport in Grenada: Highways: total: 1,127 km paved: 687 km Driving in Grenada is done on the left-hand side of the road. Visitors not accustomed to this should be extra cautious when driving on the island's highways and roads. unpaved: 440 km (1999 est. ) Grenada's roads can pose hazardous driving conditions, including aggressive drivers and sharp curves. Grenada has several ports of entry including seaports, bays and harbours: St. George's St.
Military of Grenada: The military of Grenada comprises two branches: Royal Grenada Police Force, which includes a Special Service Unit Coast Guard Total military expenditure: NA Military expenditure as a percentage of GDP: NA%
Geography of Grenada: This article describes the geography of Grenada. Grenada is a Caribbean island (one of the Grenadines) between the Caribbean Sea and Atlantic Ocean, north of Trinidad and Tobago. It is located at 1207N 6140W; / ;12.117 61.667; / 12.117; -61.667. There are no large inland bodies of water on the island, which consists entirely of the state of Grenada. The coastline is 121 km long. The Grenadan climate is tropical, tempered by northeast trade winds.
History of Guam: The history of Guam involves phases including the early arrival of people known today as the ancient Chamorros, the development of "pre-contact" society, Spanish colonization, and the present American rule of the island. Guam's history of colonialism is the longest among the Pacific islands.
Foreign relations of Grenada: The United States, Venezuela, Cuba, and the People's Republic of China have embassies in Grenada. Grenada has been recognized by most members of the United Nations and maintains diplomatic missions in the United Kingdom, the United States, Venezuela, and Canada. Grenada is a member of the Caribbean Development Bank, CARICOM, the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), and the Commonwealth of Nations.
Politics of Guam: Politics of Guam takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic system, whereby the Governor is head of government, and of a multi-party system. Guam is an organized, unincorporated territory of the United States with policy relations between Guam and the US under the jurisdiction of the Office of Insular Affairs.
Communications in Guam: Telephones - main lines in use: 85,000 (2007) Telephones - mobile cellular: 98,000 (2007) Telephone system: domestic: GTA: ~70,000 local access lines,dial-up and DSL, Internet, long distance service, TDMA and GSM wireless services international: satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat; submarine cables to United States, Japan and Australia.
Demographics of Guam: Population: 154,623 (July 2000 est. ) Age structure: 0-14 years: 34.9% (male 28,233; female 25,727) 15-64 years: 59.09% (male 48,126; female 43,238) 65 years and over: 6.01% (male 4,680; female 4,619) (2000 est. ) Population growth rate: 1.67% (2000 est. ) Birth rate: 26.19 births/1,000 population (2000 est. ) Death rate: 4.16 deaths/1,000 population (2000 est. ) Net migration rate: -5.35 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2000 est.
Transportation in Guam: Highways: total: 885 km paved: 675 km unpaved: 210 km note: there is another 685 km of roads classified non-public, including roads located on federal government installations Airports: 5 (1999 est. ) Airports - with paved runways: total: 4 over 3,047 m: 2 2,438 to 3,047 m: 1 914 to 1,523 m: 1 (2007 est. ) Airports - with unpaved runways: total: 1 under 914 m: 1 (2007 est.)
History of Guatemala: The history of Guatemala begins with the arrival of the first human settlers as early as 12,000 BC or even 18,000 BC. Civilization developed and flourished during the Pre-Columbian era with little to no contact with cultures from outside of Mesoamerica.
Demographics of Guatemala: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Guatemala, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Economy of Guatemala: Guatemala is the most populous of the Central American countries with a GDP per capita roughly one-half that of Argentina, Brazil, and Chile. Coffee, sugar, and bananas are the main products. The 1996 signing of peace accords, which ended 36 years of civil war, removed a major obstacle to foreign investment, and Guatemala since then has pursued important reforms and macroeconomic stabilization.
Geography of Guam: This article describes the geography of Guam. Location Oceania, island in the North Pacific Ocean, about three-quarters of the way from Hawaii to the Philippines. Geographic coordinates 132631N 1444635E; / ;13.44194 144.77639; / 13.44194; 144.77639 Map references Oceania Area Total: 541.3 km&sup2; Land: 541.3 km&sup2; Water: 0 km&sup2; Area (comparative) Three times the size of Washington, D.C.
Transport in Guatemala: Transportation In Guatemala.
Foreign relations of Guatemala: Illicit drugs: transit country for cocaine shipments; minor producer of illicit opium poppy and cannabis for the international drug trade; active eradication program in 1996 effectively eliminated the cannabis crop; proximity to Mexico makes Guatemala a major staging area for drugs (cocaine shipments)
Politics of Guatemala: Politics of Guatemala takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Guatemala is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Congress of the Republic. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Politics of Guernsey: Politics of Guernsey takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic British Crown dependency.
Guernsey: The Bailiwick of Guernsey is a British Crown Dependency in the English Channel off the coast of Normandy. As well as the island of Guernsey itself, it also includes Alderney, Herm, Jethou, Brecqhou, Burhou, Lihou, Sark and other islets. Although the defence of all these islands is the responsibility of the United Kingdom, the Bailiwick of Guernsey is not part of the U.K. but rather a separate possession of the Crown, comparable to the Isle of Man.
History of Guinea: The modern state of Guinea did not come into existence until 1958 but the history of the area stretches back well before European intervention. Its current boundaries were deterimined during the colonial period by the Conference of Berlin and the French, who ruled Guinea until 1958.
Guinea: Guinea, is a country in West Africa. Formerly known as French Guinea (Guin franise), it is today sometimes called Guinea-Conakry to distinguish it from its neighbor Guinea-Bissau. Conakry is the capital, the seat of the national government, and the largest city. Guinea has almost 246,000 square kilometres (94,981 sq mi). It forms a crescent by curving from its western border on the Atlantic Ocean toward the east and the south.
Politics of Guinea: Politics of Guinea takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Guinea is both head of state and head of government of Guinea. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly.
Economy of Guinea: Guinea is richly endowed with minerals, possessing an estimated quarter of the world's proven reserves of bauxite, more than 1.8 billion metric tons of high-grade iron ore, significant diamond and gold deposits, and undetermined quantities of uranium. Guinea also has considerable potential for growth in the agricultural and fishing sectors. Land, water, and climatic conditions provide opportunities for large-scale irrigated farming and agroindustry.
Demographics of Guinea: Demographics of Guinea describes the condition and overview of Guinea's peoples. Demographic topics include basic education, health, and population statistics as well as identified racial and religious affiliations.
Military of Guinea: The Republic of Guinea Armed Forces are the armed forces of Guinea. They are responsible for the territorial security of Guinea's border and the defence of the country against external attack and aggression. Guinea's armed forces are divided into five branches army, navy, air force, the paramilitary National Gendarmerie and the Republican Guard whose chiefs report to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who is subordinate to the Minister of Defense.
History of Guinea-Bissau: The history of Guinea-Bissau was dominated by Portugal from the 1450s to the 1970s; since independence, the country has been primarily controlled by a single-party system.
Foreign relations of Guinea: The foreign relations of Guinea, including those with its West African neighbors, have improved steadily since 1985. Guinea reestablished relations with France and West Germany in 1975, and with neighboring Ce d'Ivoire and Senegal in 1978. Guinea has been active in efforts toward regional integration and cooperation, especially regarding the Organization of African Unity and the Economic Organization of West African States.
Geography of Guinea-Bissau: This article describes the geography of Guinea-Bissau.
Guinea-Bissau: The Republic of Guinea-Bissau is located in West Africa. It is bordered by Senegal to the north, and Guinea to the south and east, with the Atlantic Ocean to its west. It covers nearly 37,000 square kilometres (14,000 sq mi) with an estimated population of 1,600,000. Formerly the Portuguese colony of Portuguese Guinea, upon independence, the name of its capital, Bissau, was added to the country's name to prevent confusion with the Republic of Guinea.
Transport in Guinea: total: 1,086 km standard gauge: 279 km 1,435 mm (4 ft 8+2 in) gauge metre gauge: 807 km 1,000 mm (3 ft 3+8 in) gauge (includes 662 km in common carrier service from Kankan to Conakry) The lines do not all connect.
Demographics of Guinea-Bissau: Population: 1,285,715 (July 2000 est. ) Age structure: 0-14 years: 42% (male 271,100; female 272,304) 15-64 years: 55% (male 335,150; female 370,667) 65 years and over: 3% (male 16,574; female 19,920) (2000 est. ) Population growth rate: 2.07% (2000 est. ) Birth rate: 39.63 births/1,000 population (2000 est. ) Death rate: 15.62 deaths/1,000 population (2000 est. ) Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2000 est.
Economy of Guinea-Bissau: Guinea-Bissau is among the world's least developed nations and one of the 10 poorest countries in the world, and depends mainly on agriculture and fishing. Cashew crops have increased remarkably in recent years, and the country now ranks sixth in cashew production. Guinea-Bissau exports fish and seafood along with small amounts of peanuts, palm kernels, and timber. License fees for fishing provide the government with some revenue. Rice is the major crop and staple food.
Telecommunications in Guinea-Bissau: Communications in Guinea-Bissau.
Politics of Guinea-Bissau: Politics of Guinea-Bissau takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic in transition, whereby the President is head of state and the Prime Minister is head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National People's Assembly.
Transport in Guinea-Bissau: Total: 4,400 km Paved: 453 km Unpaved: 3,947 km (1996 est. ) The Trans-West African Coastal Highway crosses Guinea-Bissau, connecting it to Banjul, Conakry, and eventually to 11 other nations of ECOWAS.
Transport in Guyana: The transportation sector comprises the physical facilities, terminals, fleets and ancillary equipment of all the various modes of transport operating in Guyana, the transport services, transport agencies providing these services, the organisations and people who plan, build, maintain, and operate the system, and the policies that mould its development.
Politics of Guyana: Politics of Guyana takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Guyana is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly of Guyana. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Military of Guinea-Bissau: Military of Guinea Bissau Military branches: People's Revolutionary Armed Force (FARP): Army, Navy, Air Force; paramilitary force Military service age and obligation: 18-25 years of age for selective compulsory military service; 16 years of age or younger with parental consent, for voluntary service (2009) Manpower available for military service: males age 16-49: 344,087 females age 16-49: 347,886 (2008 est.
Foreign relations of Guyana: After independence in 1966, Guyana sought an influential role in international affairs, particularly among Third World and non-aligned nations. It served twice on the UN Security Council (1975-76 and 1982-83). Former Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, and Attorney General Mohamed Shahabuddeen served a 9-year term on the International Court of Justice (1987-96). Guyana has diplomatic relations with a wide range of nations.
Geology: Geology (from the Greek , g, "earth" and , logos, "speech") is the science and study of the solid and liquid matter that constitutes the Earth. The field of geology encompasses the study of the composition, structure, physical properties, dynamics, and history of Earth materials, and the processes by which they are formed, moved, and changed.
Gangsta rap: Gangsta rap is a subgenre of hip hop that reflects the violent lifestyles of some inner-city youths. Gangsta is a non-rhotic pronunciation of the word gangster. The genre was pioneered in the mid 1980s by rappers such as Schooly D and Ice T, and was popularized in the later part of the 1980s by groups like N.W.A. After the national attention that Ice-T and N.W. A created in the late 1980s and early 1990s, gangsta rap became the most commercially lucrative subgenre of hip hop.
Gleichschaltung: Gleichschaltung, meaning "coordination", "making the same", "bringing into line", is a Nazi term for the process by which the Nazi regime successively established a system of totalitarian control over the individual, and tight coordination over all aspects of society and commerce. The historian Richard J. Evans offered the term "forcible-coordination" in his most recent work on Nazi Germany.
Gene Kelly: Eugene Curran "Gene" Kelly (August 23, 1912 - February 2, 1996) was an American dancer, actor, singer, film director and producer, and choreographer. A major exponent of 20th century filmed dance, Kelly was known for his energetic and athletic dancing style, his good looks and the likeable characters that he played on screen.
University of Gothenburg: The University of Gothenburg is a university in Sweden's second largest city, Gothenburg.
Georg Cantor: Georg Ferdinand Ludwig Phillip Cantor (March 3 1845 - January 6, 1918) was a mathematician, best known as the creator of set theory, which has become a fundamental theory in mathematics. Cantor established the importance of one-to-one correspondence between sets, defined infinite and well-ordered sets, and proved that the real numbers are "more numerous" than the natural numbers. In fact, Cantor's theorem implies the existence of an "infinity of infinities".
Great Man theory: The Great Man is a theory that aims to explain history by the impact of "great men", or heroes: highly influential individuals who, due to either their personal charisma, intelligence and wisdom or Machiavellianism used power in a way that had a decisive historical impact.
Great Pyramid of Giza: The Great Pyramid of Giza (also called the Pyramid of Khufu and the Pyramid of Cheops) is the oldest and largest of the three pyramids in the Giza Necropolis bordering what is now El Giza, Egypt. It is the oldest of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World and the only one to survive substantially intact. It is believed the pyramid was built as a tomb for fourth dynasty Egyptian Pharaoh Khufu (Cheops in Greek) and constructed over a 20-year period concluding around 2551 BC.
Film genre: In film theory, genre refers to the method of film categorization based on similarities in the narrative elements from which films are constructed. Most theories of film genre are borrowed from literary genre criticism. As with genre in a literary context, there is a great deal of debate over how to define or categorize genres. Besides the basic distinction in genre between fiction and documentary, film genres can be categorized in several ways.
Government: A government is the organization, machinery, or agency through which a political unit exercises its authority, controls and administers public policy, and directs and controls the actions of its members or subjects. Typically, the term "government" refers to a civil government or sovereign state which can be either local, national, or international. However, commercial, academic, religious, or other formal organizations are also governed by internal bodies.
Gary Coleman: Gary Wayne Coleman (born February 8, 1968) is an American actor, best known for his role as Arnold Jackson in the American sitcom Diff'rent Strokes (1978-1986).
GURPS: The Generic Universal RolePlaying System, or GURPS, is a role-playing game system designed to adapt to any imaginary gaming environment. It was created by Steve Jackson Games in 1986. GURPS won the Origins Award for Best Roleplaying Rules of 1988, and in 2000 it was inducted into the Origins Hall of Fame. Many of its expansions have also won awards.
Gustave Eiffel: Alexandre Gustave Eiffel was a French structural engineer and entrepreneur and a specialist of metallic structures. He is famous for designing the Eiffel Tower, built 1887-1889 for the 1889 Universal Exposition in Paris, France, and the armature for the Statue of Liberty, New York Harbor, United States
Garth Brooks: Troyal Garth Brooks (born February 7, 1962) is an American country music artist. His eponymous first album was released in 1989 and peaked at #2 in the US country album chart while climbing to #13 on the Billboard 200 pop album chart. Brooks's integration of rock elements into his recordings and live performances has earned him immense popularity.
George Whipple: George Hoyt Whipple (August 28, 1878 - February 1, 1976) was an American physician, pathologist, biomedical researcher, and medical school educator and administrator. Whipple shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1934 with George Richards Minot and William Parry Murphy "for their discoveries concerning liver therapy in cases of anemia. " Whipple was born to Ashley Cooper Whipple and Frances Anna Hoyt in Ashland, New Hampshire. He was the son and grandson of physicians.
Greenpeace: Greenpeace is a non-governmental environmental organization with offices in over 41 countries and headquarters in Amsterdam, Netherlands. Greenpeace states its goal as to "ensure the ability of the earth to nurture life in all its diversity". Greenpeace uses direct action, lobbying and research to achieve its goals. The global organization does not accept funding from governments, corporations or political parties, relying on 2,86 million individual supporters and foundation grants.
G kt rks: The Gtrks were a powerful nomadic confederation of medieval Inner Asia. Known in Chinese sources as, the Gtrks under the leadership of Bumin Khan (d. 552) and his sons succeeded the Rouran as the main power in the region and took hold of the lucrative Silk Road trade. The Gtrk rulers originated from the Ashina clan, a tribe of obscure origins who lived in the northern corner of Inner Asia.
Guilt: Guilt is a cognitive or an emotional experience that occurs when a person realises or believes- accurately or not- that they have violated a moral standard, and bear sole responsibility for that violation. It is closely related to the concept of remorse.
Gadolinium: Gadolinium is a chemical element that has the symbol Gd and atomic number 64. It is a silvery-white, malleable and ductile rare-earth metal. Gadolinium has exceptionally high absorption of neutrons and therefore is used for shielding in neutron radiography and in nuclear reactors. Because of its paramagnetic properties, solutions of organic gadolinium complexes and gadolinium compounds are the most popular intravenous MRI contrast agents in medical magnetic resonance imaging.
Gold: Gold is a chemical element with the symbol Au and an atomic number of 79. It has been a highly sought-after precious metal for coinage, jewelry, and other arts since the beginning of recorded history. The metal occurs as nuggets or grains in rocks, in veins and in alluvial deposits. Gold is dense, soft, shiny and the most malleable and ductile pure metal known.
Germanium: Germanium is a chemical element with the symbol Ge and atomic number 32. It is a lustrous, hard, grayish-white metalloid in the carbon group, chemically similar to its group neighbors tin and silicon. Germanium has five naturally occurring isotopes ranging in atomic mass number from 70 to 76. It forms a large number of organometallic compounds, including tetraethylgermane and isobutylgermane.
Gheorghe Zamfir: Gheorghe Zamfir (born April 6, 1941) is a Romanian pan flute musician who has received 90 golden and platinum disc awards, released over 200 albums and sold over 40 million recordings. Zamfir is known for playing an expanded version of the traditional Romanian-style pan flute of 20 pipes to 22, 25, 28 and 30 pipes to increase its range, and obtaining as many as eight overtones (additionally to the fundamental tone) from each pipe by changing the embouchure.
Alliance '90/The Greens: The Alliance '90/The Greens is a green political party in Germany which originated from the merger of the German Green Party and Alliance 90 in 1993. Its leaders are Claudia Roth and Cem demir. In the last elections, the party won 10.7% of the votes and 68 out of 612 seats in the Bundestag.
German Unity Day: The Day of German Unity is the national day of Germany, celebrated on 3 October as a public holiday. It commemorates the anniversary of German reunification in 1990. An alternative choice would have been the day the Berlin Wall came down9 November 1989, which coincided with the anniversary of the proclamation of the German Republic in 1918 and the defeat of Hitler's first coup in 1923.
Greater London: For London as a whole, see the main article London. Greater London is the top-level administrative subdivision covering London, England. The administrative area was officially created in 1965 and covers the City of London, including Middle Temple and Inner Temple, and 32 London boroughs. Its area also forms the London region of England and the London European Parliament constituency. The region has by far the highest GDP per capita in the United Kingdom.
GUI disambiguation: Gui may refer to: Gui, Korean grilled dishes Gui, Burkina Faso, village in Banwa Province, Burkina Faso Gui River, a river in China Mogwai (Chinese culture), ghosts or demons in Chinese folklore An alternate spelling for a Martial Arts uniform; gi Gui Boratto, a Brazilian musical artist.
Gaudy Night: Gaudy Night is a mystery novel by Dorothy L. Sayers, the twelfth in her popular series about aristocratic sleuth Lord Peter Wimsey, and the third featuring crime writer Harriet Vane.
Georg Henrik von Wright: Georg Henrik von Wright (14 June 1916 - 16 June 2003) was a Finnish philosopher, who succeeded Ludwig Wittgenstein as professor at the University of Cambridge. He published in English, Finnish, German, and in his mother tongue Swedish. He was of Finnish and of 17th-century Scottish descent. Von Wright's writings come under two broad categories. The first is analytic philosophy and philosophical logic in the Anglo-American vein.
G: G is the seventh letter in the basic modern Latin alphabet. Its name in English is spelled gee.
Goitre: A goiter, also called a bronchocele, is a swelling in the thyroid gland, which can lead to a swelling of the neck or larynx. Goitre usually occurs when the thyroid gland is not functioning properly.
Gamma: Gamma uppercase , lowercase ; Greek: ) is the third letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals it has a value of 3. It was derived from the Phoenician letter Gimel . Letters that arose from Gamma include the Roman C and G and the Cyrillic letters Ge and Ghe . In Modern Greek, it represents either a voiced velar fricative // or a voiced palatal fricative //. In Ancient Greek, it represented a voiced velar stop //.
Guy de Maupassant: Henri Ren Albert Guy de Maupassant (5 August 1850 - 6 July 1893) was a popular 19th-century French writer and considered one of the fathers of the modern short story. A prot of Flaubert, Maupassant's stories are characterized by their economy of style and efficient, effortless douement. Many of the stories are set during the Franco-Prussian War of the 1870s and several describe the futility of war and the innocent civilians who, caught in the conflict, emerge changed.
George Pappas: George Sotiros Pappas (born 1942)(also known as GP) is a professor of philosophy at Ohio State University. Pappas specializes in mashtouraepistemology, the history of early modern philosophy, philosophy of religion, and metaphysics. He is of Greek origin. He is the author of the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy entry on Internalist versus Externalist conceptions of epistemic justification.
Genetics: Genetics (from Ancient Greek genetikos, genitive and that from genesis, origin), a discipline of biology, is the science of heredity and variation in living organisms. The fact that living things inherit traits from their parents has been used since prehistoric times to improve crop plants and animals through selective breeding.
Gheorghe Hagi: Gheorghe Hagi (born February 5, 1965 in Scele), is a Romanian former football player, born in an Aromanian family. He was famous for his passing, close control, long shots and was regarded as one of the best attacking midfielders in Europe during the 1980s and 1990s. Nicknamed "The Maradona of the Carpathians", he is considered a hero in his homeland as well as in Turkey.
Gordon Banks: Gordon Banks, OBE (born 30 December 1937) is a retired English footballer, elected in a poll by the IFFHS as the second best goalkeeper of the 20th Century after Lev Yashin (1) and before Dino Zoff (3). Banks was a member of the England national team that won the 1966 World Cup. Banks was named by Pel as one of the top 125 greatest living footballers in March 2004.
Ganglion: In anatomy, a ganglion is a biological tissue mass, most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies. Cells found in a ganglion are called ganglion cells, though this term is also sometimes used to refer specifically to retinal ganglion cells. In some dinosaurs, the ganglion in the pelvis was so large relative to its brain that it could almost be said to have two brains.
Guessing game: A guessing game is a game in which the object is to guess some kind of information, such as a word, a phrase, a title, or the location of an object. Many of the games are played co-operatively. In some games some player(s) know the answer, but cannot tell the other(s), instead they must help them to guess it.
Gamma World: Gamma World is a science fantasy role-playing game, originally designed by James M. Ward and Gary Jaquet, and first published by TSR in 1978. It borrowed heavily from James M. Ward's earlier product, Metamorphosis Alpha.
Grimoire: A grimoire is a textbook of magic. Such books typically include instructions on how to create magical objects like talismans and amulets, how to perform magical spells, charms and divination and also how to summon or invoke supernatural entities such as angels, spirits, and demons.
Gottfried Leibniz: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (sometimes von Leibniz) (1 July 1646 - 14 November 1716) was a German philosopher, polymath and mathematician who wrote primarily in Latin and French. He occupies a grand place in both the history of philosophy and the history of mathematics. He invented infinitesimal calculus independently of Newton, and his notation has been in general use since then. He also invented the binary system, the foundation of virtually all modern computer architectures.
Grand Guignol: The Grand Guignol Le Thre du Grand-Guignol, literally The Theater of the Big Puppet was in the Pigalle area of Paris (at 20 bis, rue Chaptal), which, from its opening in 1897 until its closing in 1962, specialized in naturalistic horror shows. Its name is often used as a general term for graphic, amoral horror entertainment, a genre popular from Elizabethan and Jacobean theatre to today's splatter films.
Great Plague of London: The Great Plague (1665-1666) was a massive outbreak of disease in the Kingdom of England that killed an estimated 100,000 people, 20% of London's population. The disease is identified as bubonic plague, an infection by the bacterium Yersinia pestis, transmitted through a flea vector. The 1665-1666 epidemic was on a far smaller scale than the earlier "Black Death" pandemic, a virulent outbreak of disease in Europe between 1347 and 1353.
Graphical user interface: A graphical user interface (GUI) (sometimes pronounced gooey) is a type of user interface item that allows people to interact with programs in more ways than typing such as computers; hand-held devices such as MP3 Players, Portable Media Players or Gaming devices; household appliances and office equipment with images rather than text commands.
Gamete: A gamete (from Ancient Greek ; translated gamete = wife, gametes = husband) is a cell that fuses with another gamete during fertilization (conception) in organisms that reproduce sexually. In species that produce two morphologically distinct types of gametes, and in which each individual produces only one type, a female is any individual that produces the larger type of gametecalled an ovum (or egg)and a male produces the smaller tadpole-like typecalled a sperm.
Godiva programming language: Godiva is an extension to the Java programming language supporting goal-directed evaluation of expressions.
George R. R. Martin: George Raymond Richard Martin (born September 20, 1948), sometimes referred to as GRRM, is an American author and screenwriter of fantasy, horror, and science fiction. He is best known for his ongoing A Song of Ice and Fire series of novels.
Westeros: Westeros is one of the three continents described in George R. R. Martin's fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire. It is loosely based on medieval Europe.
A Song of Ice and Fire: A Song of Ice and Fire is an award-winning series of epic fantasy novels by American novelist and screenwriter George R. R. Martin. Martin began writing the series in 1991 and the first volume was published in 1996. Originally planned as a trilogy, the series now consists of four published volumes with three more projected. There are also two prequel novellas available, with several more planned, and a series of novellas consisting of excerpts of the main novels.
Gotthold Ephraim Lessing: Gotthold Ephraim Lessing (22 January 1729 - 15 February 1781) was a German writer, philosopher, dramatist, publicist, and art critic, and one of the most outstanding representatives of the Enlightenment era. His plays and theoretical writings substantially influenced the development of German literature.
Grandmaster chess: The title Grandmaster is awarded to strong chess players by the world chess organization FIDE. Apart from World Champion, Grandmaster is the highest title a chess player can attain. Once achieved, the title is held for life. In chess literature it is usually abbreviated to GM (similarly, FM stands for FIDE Master and IM for International Master). The abbreviation IGM for International Grandmaster can also sometimes be found, particularly in older literature.
Geotechnical engineering: Geotechnical engineering is the branch of civil engineering concerned with the engineering behavior of earth materials. Geotechnical engineering includes investigating existing subsurface conditions and materials; determining their physical/mechanical and chemical properties that are relevant to the project considered, assessing risks posed by site conditions; designing earthworks and structure foundations; and monitoring site conditions, earthwork and foundation construction.
Gustave Flaubert: Gustave Flaubert (December 12, 1821 - May 8, 1880) was a French writer who is counted among the greatest Western novelists. He is known especially for his first published novel, Madame Bovary (1857), and for his scrupulous devotion to his art and style.
Gregory Chaitin: Gregory John Chaitin (born 1947) is an Argentine-American mathematician and computer scientist. Beginning in the late 1960s, Chaitin made contributions to algorithmic information theory and metamathematics, in particular a new incompleteness theorem in reaction to Gel's incompleteness theorem. He attended the Bronx High School of Science and City College of New York, where he (still in his teens) developed the theories that led to his independent discovery of Kolmogorov complexity.
Goran Bregovi: Goran Bregovi (born 22 March 1950) is a Bosnian-born musician and one of the most internationally known modern composers of the Balkans. He currently lives in Belgrade, Serbia, where he settled down after the Yugoslav Wars. Bregovi has composed for such varied artists as Iggy Pop and Cesia ora. He rose to fame playing guitar with his rock band Bijelo dugme. Among his better known scores are Emir Kusturicas films.
Gestation: Gestation is the carrying of an embryo or fetus inside a female viviparous animal. Mammals during pregnancy can have one or more gestations at the same time. The time interval of a gestation plus 2 weeks is called gestation period, and the length of time plus 2 weeks that the offspring have spent developing in the uterus is called gestational age. (The extra 2 weeks is because gestational age is counted starting from the last menstrual period, rather than actual conception.
Gamma function: In mathematics, the Gamma function is an extension of the factorial function, with its argument shifted down by 1, to real and complex numbers. If n is a positive integer, then showing the connection to the factorial function. For a complex number z with positive real part, the Gamma function is defined by This definition can be extended by analytic continuation to the rest of the complex plane, except the non-positive integers.
Georges Braque: Georges Braque (13 May 1882 - 31 August 1963) was a major 20th century French painter and sculptor who, along with Pablo Picasso, developed the art movement known as Cubism.
Gilbert Cesbron: Gilbert Cesbron (1913, Paris - 1979) was a French novelist. Born in Paris, Cesbron attended what is now known as Lyc Condorcet. In 1944, he published his first novel, Les innocents de Paris ("The Innocent of Paris"), in Switzerland. He first came into wide public acclaim with the release of Notre prison est un royaume ("Our Prison is a Kingdom") in 1948, and Il est minuit, docteur Schweitzer ("It is midnight, Doctor Schweitzer") in 1950.
Galen: Aelius Galenus or Claudius Galenus, better known as Galen of Pergamum, was a prominent Roman physician and philosopher of Greek origin, and probably the most accomplished medical researcher of the Roman period. His theories dominated and influenced Western medical science for well over a millennium.
GNU Compiler Collection: The GNU Compiler Collection (usually shortened to GCC) is a compiler system produced by the GNU Project supporting various programming languages. GCC is a key component of the GNU toolchain. As well as being the official compiler of the unfinished GNU operating system, GCC has been adopted as the standard compiler by most other modern Unix-like computer operating systems, including GNU/Linux, the BSD family and Mac OS X.
Gustav Kirchhoff: Gustav Robert Kirchhoff (12 March 1824 - 17 October 1887) was a German physicist who contributed to the fundamental understanding of electrical circuits, spectroscopy, and the emission of black-body radiation by heated objects. He coined the term "black body" radiation in 1862, and two sets of independent concepts in both circuit theory and thermal emission are named "Kirchhoff's laws" after him. The Bunsen-Kirchhoff Award for spectroscopy is named after him and his colleague, Robert Bunsen.
G. K. Chesterton: Gilbert Keith Chesterton (29 May 1874 - 14 June 1936) was an English writer. His prolific and diverse output included philosophy, ontology, poetry, journalism, biography, Christian apologetics, fantasy and detective fiction. Chesterton has been called the "prince of paradox". Time magazine, in a review of a biography of Chesterton, observed of his writing style: "Whenever possible Chesterton made his points with popular sayings, proverbs, allegoriesfirst carefully turning them inside out.
Glossolalia: Glossolalia is commonly called "speaking in tongues". For other uses of "speaking in tongues", see Speaking in Tongues. "Tongues" redirects here. For the body part, see Tongue, for other uses, see Tongue. Some uses of 'Glossolalia' (including here) refer to Xenoglossy, speaking in a natural language that was previously unknown to the speaker.
God Save the Queen: "God Save the Queen", (alternatively "God Save the King"), is an anthem used in a number of Commonwealth realms. It is the national anthem of the United Kingdom and its territories and dependencies, Norfolk Island, one of the two national anthems of the Cayman Islands and New Zealand (since 1977) and the royal anthem of Canada (since 1980), Australia (since 1984), the Isle of Man, Jamaica, and Tuvalu.
Gnucleus: Gnucleus is a Gnutella and Gnutella2 client for Microsoft Windows, released under the GNU General Public License. The primary goals of the project are security and stability.
Gladiator: A gladiator was an armed combatant who entertained audiences in the Roman Republic and Roman Empire in violent confrontations with other gladiators, wild animals, and condemned criminals. Some gladiators were volunteers who risked their legal and social standing and their lives by appearing in the arena. Most were despised as slaves, schooled under harsh conditions, socially marginalized, and segregated even in death.
GMO disambiguation: A GMO is a genetically modified organism. GMO may also refer to: Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Railroad, a U.S. railroad carrier corporation General Medical Officer, a designation for United States Army soldiers U.S. Bank Championship in Milwaukee (formerly Greater Milwaukee Open), a golfing competition Generalised molecular orbital theory, in chemistry Music The Glenn Miller Orchestra, a U.S. jazz group Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Co.
Genetically modified organism: A genetically modified organism (GMO) or genetically engineered organism (GEO) is an organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. These techniques, generally known as recombinant DNA technology, use DNA molecules from different sources, which are combined into one molecule to create a new set of genes. This DNA is then transferred into an organism, giving it modified or novel genes.
Geography of Guadeloupe: Guadeloupe comprises five islands: Basse-Terre Island, Grande-Terre (separated from Basse-Terre by a narrow sea channel called salt river) with the adjacent islands of La Dirade, Les Saintes and Marie-Galante. Basse-Terre has a rough volcanic relief whilst Grande-Terre features rolling hills and flat plains. Guadeloupe was formed from multiple volcanoes, of which only Basse-Terre is not extinct.
Guadeloupe: Guadeloupe is an archipelago located in the eastern Caribbean Sea at 1615N 6135W; / ;16.25 61.583; / 16.25; -61.583Coordinates: 1615N 6135W; / ;16.25 61.583; / 16.25; -61.583, with a land area of 1,628 square kilometres. It is an overseas region of France, consisting of a single overseas department.
Politics of Guadeloupe: Guadeloupe sends four deputies to the French National Assembly and three senators to the French Senate. One of the four National Assembly constituencies still includes Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthemy even though they seceded from Guadeloupe in 2007. This situation should last until 2012 when Saint-Martin and Saint-Barthemy will send their own deputies to the French National Assembly.
Economy of Guadeloupe: The economy of Guadeloupe depends on agriculture, tourism, light industry, and services. It also depends on France for large subsidies and imports. Tourism is a key industry; an increasingly large number of cruise ships visit the islands. The traditional sugarcane crop is slowly being replaced by other crops, such as bananas (which now supply about 50% of export earnings), eggplant, and flowers.
Ghent: Ghent is a city and a municipality located in the Flemish region of Belgium. It is the capital and biggest city of the East Flanders province. The city started as a settlement at the confluence of the Rivers Scheldt and Lys and in the Middle Ages became one of the largest and richest cities of northern Europe. Today it is a busy city with a port and a university.
Transport in Guadeloupe: Transport in Guadeloupe.
Gallium: zinc gallium germanium AlGaIn File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent. gif File:Transparent.
Greatest common divisor: In mathematics, the greatest common divisor (gcd), also known as the greatest common factor (gcf), or highest common factor (hcf), of two or more non-zero integers, is the largest positive integer that divides the numbers without a remainder. This notion can be extended to polynomials, see greatest common divisor of two polynomials.
Gopher: Gopher may refer to:
Glagolitic alphabet: The Glagolitic alphabet, also known as Glagolitsa, is the oldest known Slavic alphabet. The name was not coined until many centuries after its creation, and comes from the Old Slavic glagol "utterance" (also the origin of the Slavic name for the letter G). Since glagolati also means to speak, the glagolitsa poetically referred to "the marks that speak".
Gazpacho: Gazpacho is a cold Spanish tomato-based raw vegetable soup, originating in the southern region of Andalusia. Gazpacho is widely consumed throughout Spain, neighboring Portugal (where it is known as gaspacho) and parts of Latin America. Gazpacho is mostly consumed during the summer months, due to its refreshing qualities.
Gnome: A gnome /nom/ is a diminutive chthonicpirit in Renaissance magic, alchemynd in later fantasy fiction. The word is from Renaissance Latinnomus, a word apparently coined by Swiss alchemist Paracelsus. Paracelsus uses Gnomi as a synonym of Pygm. He is perhaps deriving the term from Latin gnomos (itself representing a Greek -, literally "earth-dweller". In this case, the omission of the is, as the OED calls it, a blunder.
Googolplex: A googolplex is the number 10, which can also be written as the number 1 followed by a googol zeros (i.e. , 10 zeros).
Garry Trudeau: Garretson Beekman "Garry" Trudeau (born July 21, 1948) is an American cartoonist, best known for the Doonesbury comic strip.
Graphite: The mineral graphite is one of the allotropes of carbon. It was named by Abraham Gottlob Werner in 1789 from the Greek (graphein): "to draw/write", for its use in pencils, where it is commonly called lead, as distinguished from the actual metallic element lead. Unlike diamond (another carbon allotrope), graphite is an electrical conductor, a semimetal, and can be used, for instance, in the electrodes of an arc lamp.
Guild: A guild is an association of craftsmen in a particular trade. The earliest guilds were formed as confraternities of workers. They were organized in a manner something between a trade union, a cartel and a secret society. They often depended on grants of letters patent by an authority or monarch to enforce the flow of trade to their self-employed members, and to retain ownership of tools and the supply of materials.
Gamemaster: A Gamemaster, Game Master or Game Manager (often abbreviated as GM) is a player in a multiplayer game who acts as organizer, arbitrator, and officiant in rules situations. They are most common in co-operative games where the other players work together and are less common in competitive games where the other players battle one another. Today, gamemaster is usually associated with role-playing games.
Gradius: Gradius is a horizontally-scrolling shoot 'em up released by Konami in 1985 for video arcades. The original arcade game was released outside Japan as Nemesis, although most of the home versions released worldwide used the original title. Gradius has the distinction of popularizing a weapon selection bar called "Power meter", based upon collecting capsules to 'purchase' additional weapons.
Genetic engineering: Genetic engineering, recombinant DNA technology, genetic modification/manipulation (GM) and gene splicing are terms that apply to the direct manipulation of an organism's genes. Genetic engineering is different from traditional breeding, where the organism's genes are manipulated indirectly. Genetic engineering uses the techniques of molecular cloning and transformation to alter the structure and characteristics of genes directly.
Gettysburg Address: The Gettysburg Address is a speech by Abraham Lincoln and is one of the best known speeches in United States history. It was delivered by Lincoln at the dedication of the Soldiers' National Cemetery in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, on the afternoon of Thursday, November 19, 1863, during the American Civil War, four and a half months after the Union armies defeated those of the Confederacy at the decisive Battle of Gettysburg.
Genetic code: The genetic code is the set of rules by which information encoded in genetic material is translated into proteins by living cells. The code defines a mapping between tri-nucleotide sequences, called codons, and amino acids. With some exceptions, a triplet codon in a nucleic acid sequence usually specifies a single amino acid.
Golden ratio: In mathematics and the arts, two quantities are in the golden ratio if the ratio of the sum of the quantities to the larger quantity is equal to (=) the ratio of the larger quantity to the smaller one. The golden ratio is an irrational mathematical constant, approximately 1.6180339887. Other names frequently used for the golden ratio are the golden section and golden mean.
Grizzly Bear: The grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis), also known as the silvertip bear, is a subspecies of brown bear (Ursus arctos) that generally lives in the uplands of western North America. This subspecies is thought to descend from Ussuri brown bears which crossed to Alaska from Eastern Russia 100,000 years ago, though they did not move south until 13,000 years ago.
Genome: In modern molecular biology, the genome is the entirety of an organism's hereditary information. It is encoded either in DNA or, for many types of virus, in RNA. The genome includes both the genes and the non-coding sequences of the DNA. The term was adapted in 1920 by Hans Winkler, Professor of Botany at the University of Hamburg, Germany. The Oxford English Dictionary suggests the name to be a portmanteau of the words gene and chromosome.
Greenhouse effect: The greenhouse effect is caused by an atmosphere containing gases that absorb and emit infrared radiation. Greenhouse gases trap heat within the surface-troposphere system, causing heating at the surface of the planet or moon. This mechanism is fundamentally different from that of an actual greenhouse, which works by isolating warm air inside the structure so that heat is not lost by convection.
Gaia philosophy: Gaia philosophy is a broadly inclusive term for related concepts that living organisms on a planet will affect the nature of their environment in order to make the environment more suitable for life. This set of theories holds that all organisms on an extraterrestrial life-giving planet regulate the biosphere to the benefit of the whole. Gaia concept draws a connection between the survivability of a species (hence its evolutionary course) and its usefulness to the survival of other species.
Group isomorphism: In abstract algebra, a group isomorphism is a function between two groups that sets up a one-to-one correspondence between the elements of the groups in a way that respects the given group operations. If there exists an isomorphism between two groups, then the groups are called isomorphic. From the standpoint of group theory, isomorphic groups have the same properties and need not be distinguished.
Group homomorphism: In mathematics, given two groups (G, *) and (H, ), a group homomorphism from (G, *) to (H, ) is a function h: G H such that for all u and v in G it holds that where the group operation on the left hand side of the equation is that of G and on the right hand side that of H.
Geographic information system: A geographic information system (GIS), or geographical information system, is any system that captures, stores, analyzes, manages, and presents data that are linked to location. Technically, a GIS is a system that includes mapping software and its application to remote sensing, land surveying, aerial photography, mathematics, photogrammetry, geography, and tools that can be implemented with GIS software.
Graph theory: In mathematics and computer science, graph theory is the study of graphs: mathematical structures used to model pairwise relations between objects from a certain collection. A "graph" in this context refers to a collection of vertices or 'nodes' and a collection of edges that connect pairs of vertices.
Gumby: Gumby is a green clay humanoid figure who was the subject of a 233-episode series of American television which spanned over a 35-year period. He was animated using stop motion clay animation.
Gioachino Rossini: Gioachino Antonio Rossini (February 29, 1792 - November 13, 1868) was an Italian composer who wrote 39 operas as well as sacred music, chamber music, songs, and some instrumental and piano pieces. His best known operatic works include Il barbiere di Siviglia, La Cenerentola, La gazza ladra (The Thieving Magpie) and Guillaume Tell. A tendency for inspired, song-like melodies is evident throughout his scores, which led to the nickname "The Italian Mozart.
Gnaeus Julius Agricola: Gnaeus Julius Agricola (June 13 40 - August 23 93) was a Roman general responsible for much of the Roman conquest of Britain. His biography, the De vita et moribus Iulii Agricolae, was the first published work of his son-in-law, the historian Tacitus, and is the source for most of what is known about him. Born to a noted political family, Agricola began his military career in Britain, serving under governor Gaius Suetonius Paulinus.
List of gymnasts: Gymnasts are people who participate in the sports of either artistic gymnastics, trampolining, or rhythmic gymnastics. See gymnasium (ancient Greece) for the origin of the word gymnast from gymnastikos.
Guanosine: Guanosine is a nucleoside comprising guanine attached to a ribose ring via a -N9-glycosidic bond. Guanosine can be phosphorylated to become GMP, cGMP, GDP and GTP. When guanine is attached to a deoxyribose ring, it is known as a deoxyguanosine. Guanosine's structure bears similarities to that of the antiviral drug aciclovir, often used in Herpes treatment.
Genetic programming: In artificial intelligence, genetic programming (GP) is an evolutionary algorithm-based methodology inspired by biological evolution to find computer programs that perform a user-defined task. It is a specialization of genetic algorithms (GA) where each individual is a computer program. It is a machine learning technique used to optimize a population of computer programs according to a fitness landscape determined by a program's ability to perform a given computational task.
G del's ontological proof: Gel's ontological proof is a formalization of Saint Anselm's ontological argument for God's existence by the mathematician Kurt Gel. St. Anselm's ontological argument, in its most succinct form, is as follows: "God, by definition, is that for which no greater can be conceived. God exists in the understanding. If God exists in the understanding, we could imagine Him to be greater by existing in reality. Therefore, God must exist.
Gustav Klimt: Gustav Klimt (July 14, 1862 - February 6, 1918) was an Austrian Symbolist painter and one of the most prominent members of the Vienna Secession movement. His major works include paintings, murals, sketches, and other art objects. Klimt's primary subject was the female body, and his works are marked by a frank eroticismnowhere is this more apparent than in his numerous drawings in pencil (see Mulher sentada, below).
Groucho Marx: Julius Henry "Groucho" Marx (October 2, 1890 - August 19, 1977) was an American comedian and film star famed as a master of wit. He made 13 feature films with his siblings the Marx Brothers, of which he was the third-born. He also had a successful solo career, most notably as the host of the radio and television game shows You Bet Your Life and Tell it to Groucho.
Game Boy Advance: The Game Boy Advance (, often shortened to GBA) is a 32-bit handheld video game console developed, manufactured, and marketed by Nintendo. It is the successor to the Game Boy Color. It was released in Japan on March 21, 2001; in North America on June 11, 2001; in Australia and Europe on June 22, 2001; and in the People's Republic of China on June 8, 2004 (excluding Hong Kong).
Google search: Google search is a web search engine owned by Google Inc. and is the most-used search engine on the Web. Google receives several hundred million queries each day through its various services. Google search was originally developed by Larry Page and Sergey Brin in 1997. Google Search provides more than 22 special features beyond the original word-search capability.
Grain disambiguation: Grain refers to coarse particles (e.g. grain of sand, grain of salt): Grain is the small, hard, fruits or seeds of arable crops.
Genius: A genius (plural genii or geniuses, adjective ingenious) is a person, a body of work, or a singular achievement of surpassing excellence. More than just originality, creativity, or intelligence, genius is associated with achievement of insight which has transformational power. A work of genius fundamentally alters the expectations of its audience. Genius may be generalized, or be particular to a discrete field such as sports, statesmanship, science, or art.
Grape: A grape is the non-climacteric fruit, botanically a true berry, that grows on the perennial and deciduous woody vines of the genus Vitis. Grapes can be eaten raw or used for making jam, juice, jelly, vinegar, drugs, wine, grape seed extracts, raisins, and grape seed oil. Grapes are also used in some kinds of confectionery. A grape is sometimes used as the symbol of conscience.
Genetic disorder: A genetic disorder is an illness caused by abnormalities in genes or chromosomes. While some diseases, such as cancer, are due in part to a genetic disorders, they can also be caused by environmental factors. Most disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions. Some types of recessive gene disorders confer an advantage in the heterozygous state in certain environments.
Guanine: Guanine is one of the five main nucleobases found in the nucleic acids DNA and RNA, the others being adenine, cytosine, thymine, and uracil. In DNA, guanine is paired with cytosine. With the formula C5H5N5O, guanine is a derivative of purine, consisting of a fused pyrimidine-imidazole ring system with conjugated double bonds. Being unsaturated, the bicyclic molecule is planar. The guanine nucleoside is called guanosine.
Germanic peoples: The Germanic peoples (also called Teutonic in older literature) are a historical ethno-linguistic group, originating in Northern Europe and identified by their use of the Indo-European Germanic languages, which diversified out of Common Germanic in the course of the Pre-Roman Iron Age.
Gabriel Garc a M rquez: Gabriel Jos de la Concordia "Gabo" Garca Mquez (born March 6,1927) is a Colombian novelist, short-story writer, screenwriter and journalist. Garca Mquez, affectionately known as "Gabo" throughout Latin America, is considered one of the most significant authors of the 20th century. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1982. He pursued a self-directed education that resulted in his leaving law school for a career in journalism.
Genocide: Genocide is the deliberate and systematic destruction, in whole or in part, of an ethnic, racial, religious, or national group. While a precise definition varies among genocide scholars, a legal definition is found in the 1948 United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide (CPPCG).
Global Boundary Stratotype Section and Point: A Global Boundary Stratotype Section and Point, abbreviated GSSP, is an internationally agreed upon stratigraphic section which serves as the reference section for a particular boundary on the geologic time scale. The effort to define GSSPs is conducted by the International Commission on Stratigraphy, a part of the International Union of Geological Sciences. Most, but not all, GSSPs are based on paleontological changes.
G del's completeness theorem: Gel's completeness theorem is a fundamental theorem in mathematical logic that establishes a correspondence between semantic truth and syntactic provability in first-order logic. It was first proved by Kurt Gel in 1929. A first-order formula is called logically valid if it is true in every structure for its language. The completeness theorem shows that if a formula is logically valid then there is a finite deduction (a formal proof) of the formula.
Mobile Suit Gundam Wing: Mobile Suit Gundam Wing, known in Japan as New Mobile Report Gundam W (, Shin Kid Senki Gandamu Uingu, New Mobile Report Gundam Wing), is an anime series in the mecha genre, and is one of the alternate universe Gundam series, taking place in the After Colony timeline. It is the second alternate universe in the Gundam media franchise, following Mobile Fighter G Gundam.
Gough Whitlam: Edward Gough Whitlam, AC, QC (born 11 July 1916), known as Gough Whitlam, is a former Australian politician, and the 21st Prime Minister of Australia from 1972 to 1975. He is the only Prime Minister to be dismissed by a Governor-General using reserve powers, at the climax of the 1975 Australian constitutional crisis. Whitlam entered Federal Parliament in 1952, representing the Australian Labor Party (ALP).
Geri and Freki: In Norse mythology, Geri and Freki (Old Norse, both meaning "the ravenous" or "greedy one") are two wolves which are said to accompany the god Odin. They are attested in the Poetic Edda, a collection of epic poetry compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, in the Prose Edda, written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson, and in the poetry of skalds.
Gradient: In vector calculus, the gradient of a scalar field is a vector field which points in the direction of the greatest rate of increase of the scalar field, and whose magnitude is the greatest rate of change. A generalization of the gradient for functions on a Euclidean space which have values in another Euclidean space is the Jacobian. A further generalization for a function from one Banach space to another is the Frhet derivative.
Ginnungagap: In Norse mythology, Ginnungagap was the vast, primordial void that existed prior to the creation of the manifest universe, corresponding (both in etymology and in meaning) to the Greek notion of Chaos. In the northern part of Ginnungagap lay the intense cold of Niflheim, and to the southern part lay the equally intense heat of Muspelheim. The cosmogonic process began when the effulgence of the two met in the middle of Ginnungagap.
Green: Green is a color, the perception of which is evoked by light having a spectrum dominated by energy with a wavelength of roughly 520-570 nanometres. In the subtractive color system, it is not a primary color, but is created out of a mixture of yellow and blue, or yellow and cyan; it is considered one of the additive primary colors. On the HSV color wheel, the complement of green is magenta; that is, a purple color corresponding to an equal mixture of red and blue light.
Ganges: The Ganges is one of the major rivers of the Indian subcontinent, flowing east through the Gangetic Plain of northern India into Bangladesh. The 2,510 km (1,560 mi) river rises in the western Himalayas in the Uttarakhand state of India, and drains into the Sunderbans delta in the Bay of Bengal. It has long been considered a holy river by Hindus and worshiped as the goddess Ganga in Hinduism.
Gauss unit: The gauss, abbreviated as G, is the cgs unit of measurement of a magnetic field B (which is also known as the "magnetic flux density", or the "magnetic induction"), named after the German mathematician and physicist Carl Friedrich Gauss. One gauss is defined as one maxwell per square centimeter. 1 gauss 1 Mx/cm
Glacier: A glacier is a perennial mass of ice which moves over land. A glacier forms in locations where the mass accumulation of snow and ice exceeds ablation over many years. The word glacier comes from French via the Vulgar Latin glacia, and ultimately from Latin glacies meaning ice. The corresponding area of study is called glaciology. Glacier ice is the largest reservoir of fresh water on Earth, and is second only to oceans as the largest reservoir of total water.
Gylfaginning: Gylfaginning, or the Tricking of Gylfi (c. 20,000 words), is the first part of Snorri Sturluson's Prose Edda after Prologue. The Gylfaginning deals with the creation and destruction of the world of the Norse gods, and many other aspects of Norse mythology. The second part of the Prose Edda is called the Skdskaparm and the third Htatal.
Glorious Revolution: The Glorious Revolution, also called the Revolution of 1688, was the overthrow of King James II of England (VII of Scotland and II of Ireland) in 1688 by a union of Parliamentarians with an invading army led by the Dutch stadtholder William III of Orange-Nassau (William of Orange) who, as a result, ascended the English throne as William III of England.
Gregor Aichinger: Gregor Aichinger, (c. 1565 - 1628) was a German composer. He was organist to the Fugger family of Augsburg in 1584. In 1599 he went for a two year visit to Rome for musical, rather than religious reasons, although he had taken religious orders before his appointment under the Fugger. Proske, in the preface to vol. 2 of his Musica Divina, calls him a priest of Regensburg, and is inclined to give him the palm for the devout and ingenuous mastery of his style.
Great Lakes Colleges Association: The Great Lakes Colleges Association (GLCA), is a consortium of 13 liberal arts colleges located in the states around the Great Lakes. The 13 schools are located in Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Indiana. It was chartered in the state of Michigan and incorporated as a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization in 1962, the consortium extended its first offer of membership in 46 years to Allegheny College in 2008. The GLCA offices are located in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Goidelic languages: The Goidelic languages are one of the two branches of the Insular Celtic languages, the other consisting of the Brythonic languages. Goidelic languages historically formed a dialect continuum stretching from the south of Ireland through the Isle of Man to the north of Scotland. There are three modern Goidelic languages: Irish (Gaeilge), Scottish Gaelic (Gdhlig), and Manx (Gaelg).
Gnosticism: Gnosticism refers to diverse, syncretistic religious movements in antiquity consisting of various belief systems generally united in the teaching that the cosmos was created by an imperfect god, the demiurge with some of the supreme God's pneuma; this being is frequently identified with the Abrahamic God, (as opposed to the Gospel according to the Hebrews) and is contrasted with a superior entity, referred to by several terms including Pleroma and Godhead.
Germanicus: Germanicus Julius Caesar (24 May 16 BC or 15 BC - 10 October AD 19) was a member of the Julio-Claudian dynasty of the early Roman Empire. He was born in Lugdunum, Gaul. At birth he was named either Nero Claudius Drusus after his father or Tiberius Claudius Nero after his uncle. He received the agnomen Germanicus, by which he is principally known, in 9 BC, when it was posthumously awarded to his father in honour of his victories in Germania.
Georgius Agricola: Georgius Agricola (24 March 1494 - 21 November 1555) was a German scholar and scientist. Known as "the father of mineralogy", he was born at Glauchau in Saxony. His real name was Georg Pawer; Agricola is the Latinised version of his name, Pawer/(Bauer) meaning farmer. He is best known for his book De Re Metallica.
Gospel of Barnabas: The Gospel of Barnabas is a substantial book depicting the life of Jesus; and claiming to be by Jesus's disciple Barnabas, who in this work is one of the twelve apostles. It is recorded in two manuscripts, both dated to the late sixteenth century and written respectively in Italian and in Spanish; although the Spanish manuscript is now lost, its text survived in an eighteenth-century transcript.
Giulio Alberoni: Giulio Alberoni (May 30, 1664 OS - June 26 NS, 1752) was an Italian cardinal and statesman in the service of Philip V of Spain.
Girolamo Aleandro: Girolamo Aleandro (also Hieronymus or Jerome Aleander) (13 February 1480 - 1 February 1542) was an Italian cardinal, and the first cardinal appointed in pectore.
Giovanni Aldini: Giovanni Aldini (April 10, 1762 - January 17, 1834), Italian physicist born at Bologna, was a brother of the statesman Count Antonio Aldini (1756-1826) and nephew of Luigi Galvani, whose treatise on muscular electricity he edited with notes in 1791. He became professor of physics at Bologna in 1798, in succession to his teacher Sebastiano Canterzani (1734-1819).
Galeazzo Alessi: Galeazzo Alessi (1512 - December 30, 1572) was an Italian architect from Perugia, known throughout Europe for his distinctive style based on his enthusiasm for ancient architecture. He studied drawing for civil and military architecture under the direction of Giovanni Battista Caporali. For a number of years he lived in Genoa.
German cuisine: German cuisine is a style of cooking derived from the nation of Germany. It has evolved as a national cuisine through centuries of social and political change with variations from region to region. The southern regions of Germany, Bavaria and Swabia share many dishes. Ingredients and dishes vary by province. There are many significant regional dishes that have become both national and regional.
Gil lvarez Carrillo de Albornoz: Gil varez Carrillo de Albornoz was a Spanish cardinal and ecclesiastical leader.
Greek cuisine: Greek cuisine is the traditional cuisine of Greece, a typical Mediterranean cuisine, sharing characteristics with the cuisines of Italy, the Balkans, Turkey, and the Levant. Contemporary Greek cookery makes wide use of olive oil, vegetables and herbs, grains and bread, wine, fish, and various meats, including poultry, rabbit and pork. Also important are olives, cheese, eggplant, zucchini, and yogurt. Greek desserts are characterized by the dominant use of nuts and honey.
Giulio Alenio: Giulio Alenio was an Italian Jesuit missionary and scholar. He was born at Brescia, in Italy, and died at Yanping, China. He became a member of the Society of Jesus in 1600, and was distinguished for his knowledge of mathematics and theology. He entered the Society of Jesus and was sent to the East. He landed at Macau in 1610, and while waiting a favourable opportunity to penetrate into China busied himself for three years in teaching mathematics.
Gospel of Mark: The Gospel According to Mark, commonly shortened to the Gospel of Mark, is the second book of the New Testament. This Canonical account of the life of Jesus is one of the Synoptic Gospels. It was thought to be an epitome, and accordingly, its place as the second gospel in most Bibles. However, most contemporary scholars now regard it as the earliest of the canonical gospels (c 70).
Gospel of Matthew: The Gospel According to Matthew commonly shortened to the Gospel of Matthew, is one of the four Canonical gospels and is the first book of the New Testament. This synoptic gospel is an account of the life, ministry, death, and resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth. It details his story from his genealogy to his Great Commission. The Gospel of Matthew is closely aligned with first-century Judaism, and stresses how Jesus fulfilled Jewish prophecies.
Gospel of Luke: The Gospel According to Luke, generally shortened to the Gospel of Luke, is the third and longest of the four canonical Gospels. This synoptic gospel is an account of the life and ministry of Jesus of Nazareth. It details his story from the events of his birth to his Ascension. The author is traditionally identified as Luke the Evangelist.
Gospel of John: The Gospel According to John ( , , kata Iannn euangelion, to euangelion kata Iannn) commonly referred to as the Gospel of John is an account of the life and ministry of Jesus of Nazareth. It details the story of Jesus from his Baptism to his Resurrection.
Gregorio Allegri: Gregorio Allegri (1582 - 7 February 1652) was an Italian composer and priest of the Roman School of composers. He lived mainly in Rome, where he would later die.
Grover Cleveland: Stephen Grover Cleveland (March 18, 1837 - June 24, 1908) was the 22nd and 24th President of the United States. Cleveland is the only president to serve two non-consecutive terms (1885-1889 and 1893-1897) and therefore is the only individual to be counted twice in the numbering of the presidents.
Goodness band: Goodness was a rock band from Seattle, Washington, led by Carrie Akre, formerly of Hammerbox and now primarily a solo artist. Goodness featured Akre (vocals), Danny Newcomb (lead guitar), Garth Reeves (guitar), Fiia McGann (bass), and Chris Friel (drums). Akre, Friel, and Newcomb later joined Mike McCready of Pearl Jam and Rick Friel to form the rock band The Rockfords.
Geoff Hurst: Sir Geoffrey Charles Hurst MBE is a retired England footballer best remembered for his years with West Ham. He made his mark in World Cup history as the only player to have scored a hat-trick in a World Cup final. His three goals came in the 1966 final for England in their 4-2 win over West Germany at the old Wembley.
Giovanni d'Andrea: Giovanni d'Andrea or Johannes Andre, (c. 1270-1275 - 1348) was an Italian expert in canon law, the most renowned and successful canonist of the later Middle Ages. His contemporaries referred to him as iuris canonici fons et tuba ("the fount and trumpet of canon law"). Most important among his works were extensive commentaries on all of the official collections of papal decretals, papal judgments in the form of letters to delegated judges that were at the core of canon law.
Gloria Gaynor: Gloria Gaynor (born Gloria Fowles on September 7, 1949 in Newark, New Jersey), now living in Green Brook, New Jersey, is an American singer, best-known for the disco era hits; "I Will Survive", "Never Can Say Goodbye" (Hot 100 #4, 1974), "Let Me Know (I Have a Right)" (Hot 100 #42, 1980) and "I Am What I Am" (Hot 100 #82, 1983).
Galilean moons: The Galilean moons are the four moons of Jupiter discovered by Galileo Galilei in January 1610. They are the largest of the many moons of Jupiter and derive their names from the lovers of Zeus: Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto. Ganymede, Europa and Io participate in a 1:2:4 orbital resonance. They are among the most massive objects in the Solar System outside the Sun and the eight planets, with a radius larger than any of the dwarf planets.
Ghost: According to traditional belief, a ghost is the soul or spirit of a deceased person, taken to be capable of appearing in visible form or otherwise manifesting itself to the living. Descriptions of the apparition of ghosts vary widely: the mode of manifestation can range from an invisible presence to translucent or wispy shapes, to realistic, life-like visions. The deliberate attempt to contact the spirit of a deceased person is known as necromancy, or in spiritism as a snce.
Gerard Manley Hopkins: Gerard Manley Hopkins, S.J. (28 July 1844 - 8 June 1889) was an English poet, Roman Catholic convert, and Jesuit priest, whose 20th-century fame established him posthumously among the leading Victorian poets. His experimental explorations in prosody and his use of imagery established him as a daring innovator in a period of largely traditional verse.
Gerald Schroeder: Gerald L. Schroeder is a scientist, author, and lecturer, who focuses on what he perceives to be an inherent relationship between science and spirituality. In 1965, Schroeder received his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in nuclear physics and earth and planetary sciences. He worked five years on the staff of the MIT physics department.
Cis trans isomerism: In organic chemistry, cis-trans isomerism or geometric isomerism or configuration isomerism or E-Z isomerism is a form of stereoisomerism describing the orientation of functional groups within a molecule. In general, such isomers contain double bonds, which cannot rotate, but they can also arise from ring structures, wherein the rotation of bonds is greatly restricted. Cis and trans isomers occur both in organic molecules and in inorganic coordination complexes.
Gr mnism l: Grmnism (Sayings of Grmnir) is one of the mythological poems of the Poetic Edda. It is preserved in the Codex Regius manuscript and the AM 748 I 4to fragment. It is spoken through the voice of Grmnir, one of the many guises of the god Odin, who is (through an error) tortured by King Geirrh. This was to prove a fatal mistake since Odin caused him to fall upon his own sword.
George Peppard: George Peppard, Jr. (October 1, 1928 - May 8, 1994) was an American film and television actor. He secured a major role when he starred alongside Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffany's (1961), and he played the title role of the millionaire sleuth Thomas Banacek in the early-1970s television series Banacek, but he is probably best known to younger audiences for his role as Col.
Geocaching: Geocaching is an outdoor activity in which the participants use a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver or other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers (called "geocaches" or "caches") anywhere in the world. A typical cache is a small waterproof container containing a logbook. Larger containers can also contain items for trading, usually toys or trinkets of little value.
Geneva: Geneva is the second-most-populous city in Switzerland and is the most populous city of Romandie (the French-speaking part of Switzerland). Situated where the Rhe River exits Lake Geneva (in French also known as Lac Lan), it is the capital of the Republic and Canton of Geneva. The city proper had a population of 186,825 in June 2008, and the metropolitan area had 1,240,000 residents, according to a 2007 census. The Greater Geneva Bern area has 2,800,000 residents.
Geographical mile: The geographical mile is a unit of length determined by 1 minute of arc along the Earth's equator. For the 1924 International Spheriod this equalled 1855.4 metres.
Golden Heroes: Golden Heroes is a superhero role-playing game that was originally written and published on an amateur basis in 1982. Games Workshop then published a more complete version in 1984. It was written by Simon Burley and Peter Haines and was illustrated by a group of artists who were working for 2000 AD at the time. The game was published in a box, the rules books features fake bar codes and Comics Code approval badges.
Genitive case: In grammar, the genitive case (abbreviated gen; also called the possessive case or second case) is the case that marks a noun as modifying another noun. It often marks a noun as being the possessor of another noun but it can also indicate various relationships other than possession; certain verbs may take arguments in the genitive case; and it may have adverbial uses.
Gematria: Gematria or gimatria is a system of assigning numerical value to a word or phrase, in the belief that words or phrases with identical numerical values bear some relation to each other, or bear some relation to the number itself as it may apply to a person's age, the calendar year, or the like.
Grateful Dead: The Grateful Dead was an American rock band formed in 1965 in the San Francisco Bay Area. The band was known for its unique and eclectic style, which fused elements of rock, folk, bluegrass, blues, reggae, country, jazz, psychedelia, and space rockand for live performances of long musical improvisation. "Their music," writes Lenny Kaye, "touches on ground that most other groups don't even know exists.
Galliard: The galliard (gaillarde, in French) was a form of Renaissance dance and music popular all over Europe in the 16th century. It is mentioned in dance manuals from England, France, Spain, Germany, and Italy, among others.
Groupoid: In mathematics, especially in category theory and homotopy theory, a groupoid (less often Brandt groupoid or virtual group) generalises the notion of group and of category in several equivalent ways. A groupoid can be seen as a: Group with a partial function replacing the binary operation; Category in which every morphism is an isomorphism. A category of this sort can be viewed as augmented with a unary operation, called inverse by analogy with group theory.
General surgery: General surgery, despite its name, is a surgical specialty that focuses on abdominal organs, e.g. , intestines including esophagus, stomach, small bowel, colon, liver, pancreas, gallbladder and bile ducts, and often the thyroid gland (depending on the availability of head and neck surgery specialists). They also deal with diseases involving the skin, breast, and hernias. These surgeons deal mainly in the Torso.
Guangzhou: Guangzhou, in English and other European languages also known as Canton (which was first romanized from the Cantonese pronunciation of Guangdong by the Portuguese) and also known as Kwangchow, is a sub-provincial city and the capital of Guangdong Province in the southern part of the People's Republic of China. It is a port on the Pearl River, navigable to the South China Sea, and is located about 120 km northwest of Hong Kong.
Gallifrey: Gallifrey is a fictional planet in the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who and is the homeworld of the Doctor and the Time Lords. It is located in the constellation of Kasterborous, at "galactic coordinates ten-zero-eleven-zero-zero by zero-two from galactic zero centre", which is some 250 million light years away from Earth (as stated in the 1996 Doctor Who television movie).
Gymnastics: Gymnastics is an activity and sport involving performance of exercises requiring physical strength, flexibility, agility, co-ordination, balance, and grace. Internationally, all of the gymnastic sports are governed by the Fation Internationale de Gymnastique (FIG) with each country having its own national governing body affiliated to FIG. Competitive Artistic gymnastics is the best known of the gymnastic sports.
Great Auk: The Great Auk, Pinguinus impennis, formerly of the genus Alca, is a bird that became extinct in the mid-19th century. It was the only species in the genus Pinguinus - a group of birds that included several flightless giant auks from the Atlantic Ocean region - to survive until modern times. The Great Auk was also known as a garefowl (from the Old Norse geirfugl, meaning "spear-bird", referring to the shape of its beak) and penguin before the birds known by that name today were so called.
Gram disambiguation: Gram is a unit of measurement of mass. Otherwise, "gram" may refer to:
Glorantha: Glorantha is the Fantasy world created by Greg Stafford and since used as the background for several role-playing games, including RuneQuest (1st ed. 1978), Hero Wars (1st ed. 2000) and HeroQuest (1st ed. 2003).
Garnet Bailey: Garnet Edward "Ace" Bailey (June 13, 1948 - September 11, 2001) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player and scout who was a member of Stanley Cup and Memorial Cup winning teams. He died at age 53 when United Airlines Flight 175 crashed into the World Trade Center in New York City during the September 11 attacks.
Gorilla: Gorillas are the largest of the living primates. They are ground-dwelling and predominantly herbivorous. They inhabit the forests of central Africa. Gorillas are divided into two species and (still under debate as of 2008) either four or five subspecies. The DNA of gorillas is 98%-99% identical to that of a human, and they are the next closest living relatives to humans after the two chimpanzee species. Gorillas live in tropical or subtropical forests.
Gilles Deleuze: Gilles Deleuze, (18 January 1925 - 4 November 1995) was a French philosopher of the late 20th century. From the early 1960s until his death, Deleuze wrote many influential works on philosophy, literature, film, and fine art. His most popular books were the two volumes of Capitalism and Schizophrenia: Anti-Oedipus (1972) and A Thousand Plateaus (1980), both co-written with Fix Guattari.
Gregor Mendel: Gregor Johann Mendel (July 20, 1822 - January 6, 1884) was an Augustinian priest and scientist, who gained posthumous fame as the figurehead of the new science of genetics for his study of the inheritance of certain traits in pea plants. Mendel showed that the inheritance of these traits follows particular laws, which were later named after him. The significance of Mendel's work was not recognized until the turn of the 20th century.
Gene Hackman: Eugene Allen "Gene" Hackman (born January 30, 1930) is an American actor and novelist. Hackman has made 80 films. He came to fame in 1967 when his performance as Buck Barrow in Bonnie and Clyde earned him his first Oscar nomination.
Galaxy: A galaxy is a massive, gravitationally bound system that consists of stars and stellar remnants, an interstellar medium of gas and dust, and an important but poorly understood component tentatively dubbed dark matter. The name is from the Greek root galaxias [], meaning "milky," a reference to the Milky Way galaxy. Typical galaxies range from dwarfs with as few as ten million (10) stars up to giants with one trillion (10) stars, all orbiting the galaxy's center of mass.
Grappling: Grappling refers to techniques, maneuvers, and counters applied to an opponent (sometimes making use of the clothing of either person) in order to gain a physical advantage or to escape a dangerous position. Grappling is a general term that encompasses several disciplines or styles practiced throughout the world. Grappling is practiced as a sport and as a form of self defense, but does not include striking or the use of weapons.
Grammar: In linguistics, grammar is the set of logical and structural rules that govern the composition of sentences, phrases, and words in any given natural language. The term refers also to the study of such rules, and this field includes morphology and syntax, often complemented by phonetics, phonology, semantics, and pragmatics. Each language has its own distinct grammar. "English grammar" is the set of rules within the English language itself.
George Mason University: George Mason University (often referred to as GMU or Mason) is a public university based in unincorporated Fairfax County, Virginia, United States, south of and adjacent to the city of Fairfax. Additional campuses are located nearby in Arlington County, Prince William County, and Loudoun County. Named after American revolutionary, patriot, and founding father George Mason, the university was founded as a branch of the University of Virginia in 1957 and became an independent institution in 1972.
Galaxy groups and clusters: Galaxy groups and clusters are the largest known gravitationally bound objects to have arisen thus far in the process of cosmic structure formation. They form the densest part of the large scale structure of the universe. In models for the gravitational formation of structure with cold dark matter, the smallest structures collapse first and eventually build the largest structures, clusters of galaxies. Clusters are then formed relatively recently between 10 billion years ago and now.
Gigabyte: The gigabyte (pronounced /gbat, g-/gig-uh-bahyt, jig-) is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information storage. The prefix giga means 10 in the International System of Units (SI), therefore 1 gigabyte is 1000000000bytes. The unit symbol for the gigabyte is GB or Gbyte, but not Gb (lower case b) which is typically used for the gigabit.
Grus constellation: Grus is constellation in the southern sky. Its name is Latin for the crane, a species of bird. It was introduced in the sixteenth century.
GIA: GIA or Gia may refer to any one of the following:
Galba: Servius Sulpicius Galba (24 December 3 BC - 15 January 69), also called Servius Sulpicius Galba Caesar Augustus, was the sixth Roman Emperor for seven months, from 8 June 68 until his murder. He was the first emperor of the Year of the Four Emperors.
Giga-: Giga- is a prefix in the metric system indicating multiplication by 10 or 1000000000. Giga is derived from the Greek , meaning . The Oxford English Dictionary reports the earliest written use of giga in this sense to be in the Reports of the IUPAC 14th Conference in 1947: "The following prefixes to abbreviations for the names of units should be used: G giga 10".
Glass: A glass is an amorphous solid material. Glasses are typically brittle, and often optically transparent. Glass is commonly used for windows, bottles, modern hard drives and eyewear; examples of glassy materials include soda-lime glass, borosilicate glass, acrylic glass, sugar glass, Muscovy-glass, and aluminium oxynitride. The term glass developed in the late Roman Empire.
Grapheme: A grapheme is a fundamental unit in a written language. Examples of graphemes include alphabetic letters, Chinese characters, numerical digits, punctuation marks, and the individual symbols of any of the world's writing systems, although arguably a diacritical mark or ancillary glyph does not constitute a grapheme. In a fully phonemic orthography, a grapheme corresponds to one phoneme. However this is very much the exception.
Gel electrophoresis: Gel electrophoresis is a technique used for the separation of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), ribonucleic acid (RNA), or protein molecules using an electric field applied to a gel matrix. DNA Gel electrophoresis is usually performed for analytical purposes, often after amplification of DNA via PCR, but may be used as a preparative technique prior to use of other methods such as mass spectrometry, RFLP, PCR, cloning, DNA sequencing, or Southern blotting for further characterization.
Golgi apparatus: The Golgi apparatus (also Golgi body) is an organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. It was identified in 1898 by the Italian physician Camillo Golgi and was named after him. The primary function of the Golgi apparatus is to process and package macromolecules, such as proteins and lipids, after their synthesis and before they make their way to their destination; it is particularly important in the processing of proteins for secretion.
George Stephenson: George Stephenson (9 June 1781 - 12 August 1848) was an English civil engineer and mechanical engineer who built the first public railway line in the world to use steam locomotives, and he is renowned as being the "Father of Railways". The Victorians considered him a great example of diligent application and thirst for improvement, with self-help advocate Samuel Smiles particularly praising his achievements.
Gary Lineker: Gary Winston Lineker OBE (born 30 November 1960) is a retired English international football striker and is currently a sports broadcaster for the BBC and Eredivisie Live. He remains England's top scorer in the World Cup finals, with 10 goals. Lineker began his football career at Leicester City and became known as a prolific goalscorer; despite failing to score in his first ten games, he finished as the First Division's joint top goalscorer in 1984-85 and earning his first England cap.
GFDL disambiguation: GFDL may refer to: GNU Free Documentation License, a copyleft license Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, a division of NOAA GFDL hurricane model
GNU Manifesto: The GNU Manifesto was written by Richard Stallman and published in March 1985 in Dr. Dobb's Journal of Software Tools as an explanation and definition of the goals of the GNU Project, and to call for participation and support. It is held in high regard within the free software movement as a fundamental philosophical source. The full text is included with GNU software such as Emacs, and is available on the web.
Gross domestic product: The gross domestic product (GDP) or gross domestic income (GDI) is a basic measure of a country's overall economic output. It is the market value of all final goods and services made within the borders of a country in a year. It is often positively correlated with the standard of living, though its use as a stand-in for measuring the standard of living has come under increasing criticism and many countries are actively exploring alternative measures to GDP for that purpose.
Grid network: A grid network is a kind of computer network consisting of a number of (computer) systems connected in a grid topology. In a regular grid topology, each node in the network is connected with two neighbors along one or more dimensions. If the network is one-dimensional, and the chain of nodes is connected to form a circular loop, the resulting topology is known as a ring. Network systems such as FDDI use two counter-rotating token-passing rings to achieve high reliability and performance.
Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (August 27, 1770 - November 14, 1831) was a German philosopher, one of the creators of German Idealism. His historicist and idealist account of the total reality as a whole revolutionized European philosophy and was an important precursor to continental philosophy and Marxism.
Grace Hopper: Rear Admiral Grace Murray Hopper (December 9, 1906 - January 1, 1992) was an American computer scientist and United States Naval officer. A pioneer in the field, she was one of the first programmers of the Harvard Mark I computer, and she developed the first compiler for a computer programming language. She conceptualized the idea of machine-independent programming languages, which led to the development of COBOL, one of the first modern programming languages.
Governor-General of Australia: The Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia is the representative in Australia of the monarch of Australia. He or she exercises the supreme executive power of the Commonwealth. The functions and roles of the Governor-General include appointing ambassadors, ministers and judges, giving Royal Assent to legislation, issuing writs for elections and bestowing honours. The Governor-General is President of the Federal Executive Council and Commander-in-Chief of the Australian Defence Force.
Geodesy: Geodesy, also called geodetics, a branch of earth sciences, is the scientific discipline that deals with the measurement and representation of the Earth, including its gravitational field, in a three-dimensional time-varying space. Geodesists also study geodynamical phenomena such as crustal motion, tides, and polar motion. For this they design global and national control networks, using space and terrestrial techniques while relying on datums and coordinate systems.
Glasnost: The word is a transliteration of the Russian word and was frequently used by Gorbachev to specify the policies he believed might help reduce the corruption at the top of the Communist Party and the Soviet government, and moderate the abuse of administrative power in the Central Committee. Russian human rights activist and dissident Lyudmila Alexeyeva explained glasnost as a word that "had been in the Russian language for centuries.
German-style board game: German-style board games are a broad class of tabletop games that generally have simple rules, short to medium playing times, high levels of player interaction, and attractive physical components. The games emphasise strategy, downplay luck and conflict, lean towards economic rather than military themes, and usually keep all the players in the game until it ends. German-style games are sometimes contrasted with American-style games, which generally involve more luck, conflict, and drama.
General aviation: General aviation (GA) is one of the two categories of civil aviation. It refers to all flights other than military and scheduled airline and regular cargo flights, both private and commercial. General aviation flights range from gliders and powered parachutes to large, non-scheduled cargo jet flights. As a result, the majority of the world's air traffic falls into this category, and most of the world's airports serve general aviation exclusively.
Grand Unified Theory: The term Grand Unified Theory or GUT, refers to any of several similar models in particle physics in which at high energy scales, the three gauge interactions of the Standard Model which define the electromagnetic, weak, and strong interactions, are merged into one single interaction characterized by a larger gauge symmetry and one unified coupling constant rather than three independent ones.
G4: G4, G. IV, G04, G.4 or G-4 may refer to:
Gracchi: The Gracchi brothers, Tiberius and Gaius, were a pair of young men known as tribunes in 2nd century BC who attempted to pass land reform legislation in Ancient Rome that would redistribute the major patrician landholdings among the plebeians.
GTE: GTE Corporation (formerly General Telephone & Electronics Corporation) was the largest of the "independent" US telephone companies during the days of the Bell System. It acquired the third largest independent, Continental Telephone (ConTel) in 1991. They also owned Automatic Electric, a telephone equipment supplier similar in many ways to Western Electric, and Sylvania Lighting, the only non-communications-oriented company under GTE ownership.
Gossip: Gossip is idle talk or rumour, especially about the personal or private affairs of others. It forms one of the oldest and most common means of sharing (unproven) facts and views, but also has a reputation for the introduction of errors and other variations into the information transmitted. The term also carries implications that the news so transmitted (usually) has a personal or trivial nature, as opposed to normal conversation.
Garbage collection: Garbage collection may refer to: Waste collection, one part of the municipal waste management cycle. Garbage collection (computer science), the detection and pruning of unused or inaccessible data structures.
Gospel: A gospel (from Old English, gd spell "good news") is a writing that describes the life of Jesus. The word is primarily used to refer to the four canonical gospels: the Gospel of Matthew, Gospel of Mark, Gospel of Luke and Gospel of John, probably written between AD 65 and 110. They appear to have been originally untitled; they were quoted anonymously in the first half of the second century (i.e. 100-150) but the names by which they are currently known appear suddenly around the year 180.
Gothic fiction: Gothic fiction (sometimes referred to as Gothic horror) is a genre of literature that combines elements of both horror and romance. As a genre, it is generally believed to have been invented by the English author Horace Walpole, with his 1764 novel The Castle of Otranto. The effect of Gothic fiction feeds on a pleasing sort of terror, an extension of Romantic literary pleasures that were relatively new at the time of Walpole's novel.
Guitarist: A guitarist is a musician who plays the guitar. Guitarists may play a variety of instruments such as acoustic guitars, electric guitars, classical guitars and bass guitars. Some guitarists accompany themselves on the guitar while singing.
GIMP: GIMP (the GNU Image Manipulation Program) is a free software raster graphics editor. It is primarily employed as an image retouching and editing tool. In addition to offering freeform drawing, GIMP can accomplish essential image workflow steps such as resizing, editing, and cropping photos, combining multiple images, and converting between different image formats. GIMP can also be used to create basic animated images in the GIF format.
Global illumination: Global illumination is a general name for a group of algorithms used in 3D computer graphics that are meant to add more realistic lighting to 3D scenes. Such algorithms take into account not only the light which comes directly from a light source (direct illumination), but also subsequent cases in which light rays from the same source are reflected by other surfaces in the scene, whether reflective or non (indirect illumination).
Geometric series: In mathematics, a geometric series is a series with a constant ratio between successive terms. For example, the series is geometric, because each term except the first can be obtained by multiplying the previous term by . Geometric series are one of the simplest examples of infinite series with finite sums. Historically, geometric series played an important role in the early development of calculus, and they continue to be central in the study of convergence of series.
List of islands of Greece: This is a list of islands of Greece. The Greek Islands are a collection of over 6,000 islands and islets that belong to Greece. Only 227 of the islands are inhabited, and only 78 of those have more than 100 inhabitants. The largest Greek island by area is Crete, located at the southern edge of the Aegean Sea. The second largest island is Euboea, which is separated from the mainland by the 60m-wide Euripus Strait, and is administered as part of the central Greece periphery.
German language literature: German literature comprises those literary texts written in the German language. This includes literature written in Germany itself as well as German-language Swiss and Austrian literature, and to a lesser extent works of the German diaspora. German literature of the modern period is mostly in Standard German, but there are some currents of literature influenced to a greater or lesser degree by dialects.
Gian Lorenzo Bernini: Gian Lorenzo Bernini (also spelled Gianlorenzo or Giovanni Lorenzo) (Naples, 7 December 1598 - Rome, 28 November 1680) was an Italian artist who worked principally in Rome. He was the leading sculptor of his age and also a prominent architect. In addition he painted, wrote plays, and designed metalwork and stage sets.
Galilee: Galilee, is a large region in northern Israel which overlaps with much of the administrative North District of the country.
Gary North Christian Reconstructionist: Gary Kilgore North (born 1942) is an economist and publisher who writes on topics including economics, history, and Christian theology.
Glycolysis: Glycolysis (from glycose, an older term for glucose + -lysis degradation) is the metabolic pathway that converts glucose, C6H12O6, into pyruvate, CH3COCOO + H. The free energy released in this process is used to form the high energy compounds, ATP and NADH. Glycolysis is a definite sequence of ten reactions involving ten intermediate compounds (one of the steps involves two intermediates). The intermediates provide entry points to glycolysis.
Goths: The Goths were a heterogeneous East Germanic tribe. The historian Jordanes claimed that the Goths arrived from semi-legendary Scandza, believed to be somewhere in modern Galand, and that a Gothic population had crossed the Baltic Sea before the 2nd century, lending their name to the region of Gothiscandza, believed to be the lower Vistula region in modern Pomerelia.
Gerrit Rietveld: Gerrit Thomas Rietveld (25 June 1888-27 June, 1965) was a Dutch furniture designer and architect. One of the principal members of the Dutch artistic movement called De Stijl, Rietveld is famous for his Red and Blue Chair and for the Rietveld Schrer House, which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Rietveld designed his famous Red and Blue Chair in 1917.
Guernica town: Guernica is a town in the province of Biscay, in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, Spain. The town of Guernica is united in one municipality with neighbouring Luno ("Lumo" in Basque), Gernika-Lumo. The population of the municipality is 15,571 (2004). Outside of the Basque lands, Guernica is best known as the scene of the April 26, 1937, Bombing of Guernica, one of the first aerial bombings by Nazi Germany's Luftwaffe.
Gary disambiguation: Gary is a city in Indiana, U.S.
Gary Indiana: Gary is a city in Lake County, Indiana, United States. The city is in the southeastern portion of the Chicago metropolitan area and is 25 miles from downtown Chicago. The population was 102,746 at the 2000 census, making it the fifth largest city in the state. Gary was once the second largest city in Indiana, behind Indianapolis, a position now held by Fort Wayne. It borders Lake Michigan and has large steel mills.
God Emperor of Dune: God Emperor of Dune is a science fiction novel by Frank Herbert published in 1981, the fourth in the Dune series. It was ranked as the #11 hardcover fiction best seller of 1984 by Publishers Weekly.
Goonhilly Satellite Earth Station: Goonhilly Satellite Earth Station is a large telecommunications site located on Goonhilly Downs near Helston on the Lizard peninsula in Cornwall, UK. Owned by BT Group plc, it was at one time the largest satellite earth station in the world, with more than 25 communications dishes in use and over 60 in total. The site also links into undersea cable lines. It ceased all satellite operations in 2008. Its first dish, Antenna One (dubbed "Arthur"), was built in 1962 to link with Telstar.
Godwin's law: Godwin's Law (also known as Godwin's Rule of Nazi Analogies or Godwin's Law of Nazi Analogies) is a humorous observation made by Mike Godwin in 1990 which has become an Internet adage. It states: "As an online discussion grows longer, the probability of a comparison involving Nazis or Hitler approaches 1."
Gregory the Illuminator: Saint Gregory the Illuminator or Saint Gregory the Enlightener (c. 257 - c. 331) is the patron saint and first official head of the Armenian Apostolic Church. He was a religious leader who is credited with converting Armenia from paganism to Christianity, Armenia thus being the first country to adopt Christianity as its official religion in 301 AD.
Goya disambiguation: Goya may refer to:
Green Bay Packers: The Green Bay Packers are an American football team based in Green Bay, Wisconsin. They are members of the North Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL) and are the third-oldest franchise in the NFL. The Packers are the last vestige of "small town teams" that were once common in the NFL during the 1920s and 1930s.
General purpose machine gun: A general purpose machine gun (GPMG) in concept is a multi-purpose weapon, a machine gun intended to fill the role of either a light machine gun or medium machine gun, while at the same time being man-portable. However, performance in either role may be inferior to a weapon specifically designed for that role. In modern practice, they are air-cooled medium machine guns firing rifle cartridges such as the 7.62x51mm NATO.
Gluon: Gluons (glue and the suffix -on) are elementary expressions of quark interaction, and are indirectly involved with the binding of protons and neutrons together in atomic nuclei. The antiparticle of a gluon is another gluon. In technical terms, they are vector gauge bosons that mediate strong color charge interactions of quarks in quantum chromodynamics (QCD).
GM: GM or Gm may refer to:
Galois group: In mathematics, a Galois group is a group associated with a certain type of field extension. The study of field extensions (and polynomials which give rise to them) via Galois groups is called Galois theory after ariste Galois who first discovered them. For a more elementary discussion of Galois groups in terms of permutation groups, see the article on Galois theory.
Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden: Gustav II Adolf (9 December 1594 - 6 November 1632, O.S. ), widely known in English by the Latinized name Gustavus Adolphus and variously in historical writings sometimes as simply just Gustavus, or Gustavus the Great, or Gustav Adolf the Great,, was founder of the Swedish Empire (or Stormaktstiden - "the era of great power") at the beginning of what is widely regarded as the Golden Age of Sweden.
Book of Genesis: The Book of Genesis or Bereishit is the first book of the Hebrew Bible, and the first of five books of the Torah, called the Pentateuch in the Christian Old Testament.
Gdynia: Gdynia is a city in the Pomeranian Voivodeship of Poland and an important seaport of Gdask Bay on the south coast of the Baltic Sea. Located in Kashubia in Eastern Pomerania, Gdynia is part of a conurbation with the spa town of Sopot, the city of Gdask and suburban communities, which together form a metropolitan area called the Tricity (Trmiasto), with a population of over a million people.
German Empire: The German Empire is and was the official term used to refer to Germany from the unification of Germany and proclamation of Wilhelm I as German Emperor on 18 January 1871 to 1918, when it became a German federal republic after defeat in World War I and the abdication of Wilhelm II (28 November 1918).
Gallienus: Publius Licinius Egnatius Gallienus (c. 218 - 268) ruled the Roman Empire as co-emperor with his father Valerian from 253 to 260, and then as the sole Roman Emperor from 260 to 268. He took control of the empire at a time when it was undergoing great crisis. His record in dealing with those crises is mixed, as he won a number of military victories but was unable to keep much of his realm from seceding.
Gambeson: A gambeson (or aketon or padded jack) is a padded defensive jacket, worn as armour separately, or combined with mail or plate armour. Gambeson were produced with a sewing technique called quilting. Usually constructed of linen or wool, the stuffing varied, and could be for example scrap cloth or horse hair. During the 14th century, illustrations usually show buttons or laces up the front.
Geography of Afghanistan: Afghanistan is a landlocked nation in south-central Asia. Strategically located at the crossroads of major north-south and east-west trade routes, it has attracted a succession of invaders including Alexander the Great, in the fourth century B.C. Currently, the United States continues the global war on terrorism there.
Gun politics: Gun politics addresses safety issues related to firearms through criminal and noncriminal use. Gun politics deals with rules, regulations, and restrictions on the use, ownership, and distribution of guns.
Shock site: A shock site is a website that is intended to be offensive, disgusting or/and disturbing to its viewers, containing materials of high shock value which is also considered distasteful and crude, and is generally of a pornographic, scatological, extremely violent, extremely profane, or extremely provocative nature.
Grand jury: In the common law, a grand jury is a type of jury that determines whether there is enough evidence for a trial. Grand juries carry out this duty by examining evidence presented to them by a prosecutor and issuing indictments, or by investigating alleged crimes and issuing s. A grand jury is traditionally larger than and distinguishable from a petit jury, which is used during a trial.
Gymnosphaerid: The gymnosphaerids (or Gymnosphaerida) are a small group of heliozoan protists found in marine environments. They tend to be roughly spherical with radially directed axopods, supported by microtubules in a triangular-hexagonal array arising from an amorphous central granule.
Group representation: In the mathematical field of representation theory, group representations describe abstract groups in terms of linear transformations of vector spaces; in particular, they can be used to represent group elements as matrices so that the group operation can be represented by matrix multiplication. Representations of groups are important because they allow many group-theoretic problems to be reduced to problems in linear algebra, which is well-understood.
GRE Physics Test: The GRE physics test is an examination administered by the Educational Testing Service (ETS). The test attempts to determine the extent of the examinees' understanding of fundamental principles of physics and their ability to apply them to problem solving. Many graduate schools require applicants to take the exam and base admission decisions in part on the results. This puts pressure on undergraduate programs to teach the topics students will need to succeed on the GRE.
Gardnerian Wicca: Gardnerian Wicca, or Gardnerian Witchcraft, is a mystery cult tradition or denomination in the neopagan religion of Wicca, whose members can trace initiatory descent from Gerald Gardner. The tradition is itself named after Gardner (1884-1964), a British civil servant and scholar of magic. The term "Gardnerian" was probably coined by the founder of Cochranian Witchcraft, Robert Cochrane in the 1950s or 60s, who himself ridiculed the tradition.
Graphics Interchange Format: The Graphics Interchange Format (GIF) is a bitmap image format that was introduced by CompuServe in 1987 and has since come into widespread usage on the World Wide Web due to its wide support and portability. The format supports up to 8 bits per pixel allowing a single image to reference a palette of up to 256 distinct colors chosen from the 24-bit RGB color space. It also supports animations and allows a separate palette of 256 colors for each frame.
Greenwich Mean Time: Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) is a term originally referring to mean solar time at the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, London. It is commonly used in practice to refer to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) when this is viewed as a time zone, especially by bodies connected with the United Kingdom, such as the BBC World Service, the Royal Navy, the Met Office and others, although strictly UTC is an atomic time scale which only approximates GMT with a tolerance of 0.9 second.
Geography of Albania: Albania has a total area of 28,748 km (11,100 sq mi). It shares a 172 km (107 mi) border with Montenegro to the northwest, a 115 km (71 mi) border with Kosovo to the northeast, a 151 km (94 mi) border with Macedonia to the north and east, and a 282 km (175 mi) border with Greece to the south and southeast. Its coastline is 487 km (303 mi) long.
Greg Egan: Greg Egan (born 20 August 1961) is an Australian science fiction author. Egan specialises in hard science fiction stories with mathematical and quantum ontology themes, including the nature of consciousness. Other themes include genetics, simulated reality, posthumanism, mind transfer, sexuality, artificial intelligence, and the superiority of rational naturalism over religion.
Goodtimes virus: The Goodtimes Virus was a computer virus hoax that spread during the early years of the Internet's popularity. Warnings about a computer virus named "Good Times" began being passed around among Internet users in 1994. The Goodtimes virus was supposedly transmitted via an email bearing the subject header "Good Times" or "Goodtimes," hence the virus's name, and the warning recommended deleting any such email unread.
Gary Snyder: Gary Snyder (born May 8, 1930) is an American poet (often associated with the Beat Generation and the San Francisco Renaissance), as well as an essayist, lecturer, and environmental activist (frequently described as the "poet laureate of Deep Ecology"). Snyder is a winner of a Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. His work, in his various roles, reflects an immersion in both Buddhist spirituality and nature. Snyder has also translated literature into English from ancient Chinese and modern Japanese.
Guy Fawkes: Guy Fawkes (13 April 1570 - 31 January 1606), also known as Guido Fawkes, the name he adopted while fighting for the Spanish in the Low Countries, belonged to a group of Catholic Restorationists from England who planned the Gunpowder Plot of 1605. Their aim was to displace Protestant rule by blowing up the Houses of Parliament while King James I and the entire Protestant, and even most of the Catholic, aristocracy and nobility were inside.
Gonzo journalism: Gonzo journalism is a style of journalism which is written subjectively, often including the reporter as part of the story via a first person narrative. The word Gonzo was first used in 1970 to describe an article by Hunter S. Thompson, who later popularized the style. The term has since been applied to other subjective artistic endeavors. Gonzo journalism tends to favor style over accuracy and often uses personal experiences and emotions to provide context for the topic or event being covered.
Glissando: A glissando is a glide from one pitch to another. It is an Italianized musical term derived from the French glisser, to glide.
Giant Panda: The Giant Panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca, literally meaning "cat-foot black-and-white") is a bear native to central-western and south western China. It is easily recognized by its large, distinctive black patches around the eyes, over the ears, and across its round body. Though it belongs to the order Carnivora, the Giant Panda's diet is 99% bamboo. Other parts of its diet include honey, eggs, fish, yams, shrub leaves, oranges, and bananas when available.
Griffith's experiment: Griffith's experiment, conducted in 1928 by Frederick Griffith, was one of the first experiments suggesting that bacteria are capable of transferring genetic information through a process known as transformation. Griffith used two strains of Pneumococcus, a type III-S (smooth) and type II-R (rough) strain.
Gustave de Molinari: Gustave de Molinari (March 3, 1819,Lie - January 28, 1912, Adinkerke) was an economist born in the Belgium associated with French laissez-faire liberal economists such as Fric Bastiat and Hippolyte Castille. Living in Paris, in the 1840s, he took part in the "Ligue pour la Libert des hanges" (Free Trade League), animated by Fric Bastiat. On his death bed in 1850, Bastiat described Molinari as the continuator of his works.
Guerrilla warfare: Guerrilla warfare is the irregular warfare and combat in which a small group of combatants use mobile military tactics in the form of ambushes and raids to combat a larger and less mobile formal army. The term means "little war" in Spanish and has been in use since at least the 18th century.
List of professional gardeners: This is a list of people noted for their contribution to gardening, either by working as gardeners or garden designers by occupation, or by commissioning famous gardens. It does not include the innumerable people who count gardening among their hobbies.
Original proof of G del's completeness theorem: The proof of Gel's completeness theorem given by Kurt Gel in his doctoral dissertation of 1929 (and a rewritten version of the dissertation, published as an article in 1930) is not easy to read today; it uses concepts and formalism that are outdated and terminology that is often obscure. The version given below attempts to faithfully represent all the steps in the proof and all the important ideas, while restating the proof in the modern language of mathematical logic.
Grits: Grits is a food of aboriginal American origin common in the Southern United States, consisting of coarsely ground corn. Grits is similar to other thick maize-based porridges from around the world such as polenta. It also has a resemblance to farina, a thinner porridge. The word leads back to the traditional Northern European grit gruels. Grits can be served hot or cold and as a base for a multitude of dishes from breakfast to dessert, depending on the additives.
General Electric: The General Electric Company, or GE, is a multinational American technology and services conglomerate incorporated in the State of New York. In 2009, Forbes ranked GE as the world's largest company. The company has 323,000 employees around the world.
Gas giant: A gas giant (sometimes also known as a Jovian planet after the planet Jupiter, or giant planet) is a large planet that is not primarily composed of rock or other solid matter. There are four gas giants in our Solar System: Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Many extrasolar gas giants have been identified orbiting other stars.
Giraffe: The giraffe (Giraffa camelopardalis) is an African even-toed ungulate mammal, the tallest of all land-living animal species, and the largest ruminant. It is covered in large, irregular patches of yellow to black fur separated by white, off-white, or dark yellowish brown background. The average mass for an adult male giraffe is 1,200 kilograms (2,600 lb) while the average mass for an adult female is 830 kilograms (1,800 lb).
Goddess: A goddess is a female deity. Often deities are part of a polytheistic system that includes several deities in a pantheon. In some cultures goddesses are commonly associated with the Earth, motherhood, love, and the household, often reflecting the historical gender roles of that culture. In other cultures, goddesses may also be associated with functions such as war, death, and destruction as well as healing.
George Harrison: George Harrison, MBE (25 February 1943 - 29 November 2001) was an English rock guitarist, singer-songwriter and film producer who achieved international fame as lead guitarist in The Beatles. Often referred to as "the quiet Beatle", Harrison embraced Indian mysticism, and helped broaden the horizons of the other Beatles, as well as those of their Western audience.
List of German-language poets: This list contains the names of individuals who wrote poetry in the German language. Most are identified as "German poets," but some are not German. All, though, wrote poetry in the German language. See also: List of German-language philosophers, List of German-language authors, poetry, German literature, List of German-language playwrights and German Wikipedia's list.
Gunpowder: For other meanings, see gunpowder. Gunpowder, also called black powder, is a mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and potassium nitrate. It burns rapidly, producing a volume of hot gas and a solid residue which can be used as a propellant in firearms and as a pyrotechnic composition in fireworks. The term gunpowder also refers broadly to any propellant powder.
Grampus: Grampus may mean: A common name historically used for the orca Grampus, the genus that includes Risso's Dolphin as its only species CSS Grampus, a Confederate river steamer USS Grampus, the name of a number of ships of the United States Navy HMS Grampus, the name of a number of Royal Navy ships and submarines the Grampus class submarines, built in the style of HMS Grampus (N56) Grampus Heritage and Training, Ltd.
Garrison Keillor: Gary Edward "Garrison" Keillor (born August 7, 1942) is an American author, storyteller, humorist, columnist, musician, satirist, and radio personality. He is known as host of the Minnesota Public Radio show A Prairie Home Companion.
Gary Kildall: Gary Arlen Kildall (May 19, 1942 - July 11, 1994) was an American computer scientist and microcomputer entrepreneur who created the CP/M operating system and founded Digital Research, Inc. (DRI). Kildall was one of the first people to see microprocessors as fully capable computers rather than equipment controllers and to organize a company around this concept. He also co-hosted the PBS TV show The Computer Chronicles.
Gesta Danorum: Gesta Danorum ("Deeds of the Danes") is a patriotic work of Danish history, by the 12th century author Saxo Grammaticus ("Saxo the Literate", literally "the Grammarian"). It is the most ambitious literary undertaking of medieval Denmark and is an essential source for the nation's early history. It is also one of the oldest known written documents about the history of Estonia and Livonia.
Galatia: Ancient Galatia was an area in the highlands of central Anatolia in modern Turkey. Galatia, an ancient region of Asia Minor, was named for the immigrant Gauls from Thrace, who settled here and became its ruling caste in the 3rd century BC. It has been called the "Gallia" of the East, Roman writers calling its inhabitants Galli.
Galatians: Galatians may refer to: the Celtic inhabitants of Galatia Saint Paul's Epistle to the Galatians
Giacomo Puccini: Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini (22 December 1858 - 29 November 1924) was an Italian composer whose operas, including La bohe, Tosca, Madama Butterfly and Turandot, are among the most frequently performed in the standard repertoire. Some of his arias, such as "O mio babbino caro" from Gianni Schicchi, "Che gelida manina" from La bohe, and "Nessun dorma" from Turandot, have become part of popular culture.
Generalization: A generalization of a concept is an extension of the concept to less-specific criteria. It is a foundational element of logic and human reasoning. Generalization posits the existence of a domain or set of elements, as well as one or more common characteristics shared by those elements. As such, it is the essential basis of all valid deductive inference. The process of verification is necessary to determine whether a generalization holds true for any given situation.
Gramophone: Gramophone might refer to: The British English term for U.S. English "phonograph", the first device for recording and replaying sound. The two names were originally those used by rival manufacturers Gramophone record, a disc shaped analogue sound recording medium Gramophone (magazine), a British publication devoted to classical music Gramophone Company, a British record company, existing from 1897 to 1931 Berliner Gramophone, incorporated by Emile Berliner in 1892 in Washington, D.C.
Gia Carangi: Gia Marie Carangi (January 29, 1960 - November 18, 1986) was an American fashion model during the late 1970s and early 1980s. Her father is Italian American, and her mother is American of Irish and Welsh ancestry. Carangi was considered by some to be the first supermodel, although that title has also been given to others, including Janice Dickinson and Dorian Leigh.
George Cukor: George Cukor (July 7, 1899 - January 24, 1983) was an American film director who mainly concentrated on comedies and literary adaptations. His career flourished at RKO and later MGM, where he directed a string of impressive films including What Price Hollywood? (1932), A Bill of Divorcement (1932), Dinner at Eight (1933), Little Women (1933), David Copperfield (1935), Romeo and Juliet (1936), and Camille (1937).
George Frideric Handel: George Frideric Handel (23 February 1685 - 14 April 1759) was a German-English Baroque composer who is famous for his operas, oratorios, and concertos. Handel was born in Germany in the same year as JS Bach and Domenico Scarlatti. He received critical musical training in Italy before settling in London and becoming a naturalised British subject. His works include Messiah, Water Music, and Music for the Royal Fireworks.
Gas mask: A gas mask is a mask worn over the face to protect the wearer from inhaling "airborne pollutants" and toxic gases. The mask forms a sealed cover over the nose and mouth, but may also cover the eyes and other vulnerable soft tissues of the face. Some gas masks are also respirators, though the word gas mask is often used to refer to military equipment (e.g. Field Protective Mask, etc. ) (The user of the gas mask is not protected from gas that the skin can absorb.
List of basic geography topics: The following is an overview and list of basic geography topics.
Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina: Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina (b. 3 February 1525 - 2 February 1526; d. 2 February 1594) was an Italian Renaissance composer and the most well-known 16th-century representative of the Roman School of musical composition. Palestrina became famous through his output of sacred music. He had an enormous influence on the development of Roman Catholic church music, and his work has often been seen as the culmination of Renaissance polyphony.
Glitnir: Glitnir (glit, nitor, splendor, OHG. kliz, E. shining) is the hall of Forseti, the Norse god of law and justice, and the seat of justice amongst gods and men. It is also noted to have been a place of dwelling for Balder, Forseti's father in Norse and Germanic mythologies. Glitnir is symbolic of the importance of discussion rather than violence as a means of resolution of conflict within the Norse tradition. It has pillars of gold and is roofed with silver.
Group velocity: The group velocity of a wave is the velocity with which the overall shape of the wave's amplitudes known as the modulation or envelope of the wave propagates through space. For example, imagine what happens if a stone is thrown into the middle of a very still pond. When the stone hits the surface of the water, a circular pattern of waves appears. It soon turns into a circular ring of waves with a quiescent center.
Group action: In algebra and geometry, a group action is a way of describing symmetries of objects using groups. The essential elements of the object are described by a set and the symmetries of the object are described by the symmetry group of this set, which consists of bijective transformations of the set.
General anaesthetic: A general anaesthetic (or anesthetic, see spelling differences) drug is an anaesthetic drug that brings about a reversible loss of consciousness. These drugs are generally administered by an anaesthesia provider in order to induce or maintain general anaesthesia to facilitate surgery. The biological mechanism(s) of action of general anesthetics are not well understood.
Geoffrey Chaucer: Geoffrey Chaucer (c. 1343 - 25 October 1400) was an English author, poet, philosopher, bureaucrat, courtier and diplomat. Although he wrote many works, he is best remembered for his unfinished frame narrative The Canterbury Tales. Sometimes called the father of English literature, Chaucer is credited by some scholars as the first author to demonstrate the artistic legitimacy of the vernacular English language, rather than French or Latin.
Gzip: gzip is a software application used for file compression. gzip is short for GNU zip; as the program was created a free software replacement for the compress program used in early Unix systems, intended for use by the GNU Project. gzip was created by Jean-Loup Gailly and Mark Adler. Version 0.1 was first publicly released on October 31, 1992. Version 1.0 followed in February 1993.
Gerald Gardner: Gerald Brousseau Gardner (June 13, 1884 - February 12, 1964), who sometimes used the craft name Scire, was an influential English Wiccan, as well as an amateur anthropologist and archaeologist, writer, weaponry expert and occultist. He was instrumental in bringing the religion of Wicca to public attention and wrote some of its definitive religious texts.
Gopher protocol: The Gopher protocol is a TCP/IP Application layer protocol designed for distributing, searching, and retrieving documents over the Internet. Software using this protocol was a predecessor of (and later, an alternative to) the World Wide Web. The protocol offers some features not natively supported by the Web and imposes a much stronger hierarchy on information stored on it.
General election: In a parliamentary political system, a general election is an election in which all or most members of a given political body are up for election. The term is usually used to refer to elections held for a nation's primary legislative body, as distinguished from by-elections and local elections. The term originates in the United Kingdom general elections for the House of Commons.
Gavin MacLeod: Gavin MacLeod (born February 28, 1931) is an American actor most notable for playing Murray Slaughter on The Mary Tyler Moore Show and Captain Merrill Stubing on The Love Boat. He is the stepfather of Drew Steele, of the rock band the Surf Punks.
Genotype: The genotype is the genetic constitution of a cell, an organism, or an individual (i.e. the specific allele makeup of the individual) usually with reference to a specific character under consideration. For instance, the human albino gene has two recessive alleles, recessive a and recessive a. It is a generally accepted theory that inherited genotype, transmitted epigenetic factors, and non-hereditary environmental variation contribute to the phenotype of an individual.
Gerard Hengeveld: Gerard Hengeveld (7 December 1910, Kampen - October 28, 2001, Bergen, North Holland) was a Dutch classical pianist, music composer and educationalist. He is especially known for his compositions of study material for piano. Other compositions include two piano concertos, a violin sonata, and a sonata for cello. Hengeveld was an able interpreter and performer of the music of Bach for piano and harpsichord. He gave regular concerts in the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam.
Graphic design: The term graphic design can refer to a number of artistic and professional disciplines which focus on visual communication and presentation. Various methods are used to create and combine symbols, images and/or words to create a visual representation of ideas and messages. A graphic designer may use typography, visual arts and page layout techniques to produce the final result.
George William Elector of Brandenburg: George William (13 November 1595 - December 1, 1640) of the Hohenzollern dynasty was margrave and elector of Brandenburg and duke of Prussia (1619-1640). His reign was marked by ineffective governance during the Thirty Years' War.
Gemstone: A gemstone or gem (also called a precious or semi-precious stone, or jewel) is a piece of attractive mineral, whichwhen cut and polishedis used to make jewelry or other adornments. However certain rocks, and organic materials are not minerals, but are still used for jewelry, and are therefore often considered to be gemstones as well. Most gemstones are hard, but some soft minerals are used in jewelry because of their lustre or other physical properties that have aesthetic value.
Great Rift Valley: The Great Rift Valley is a name given in the late 19th century by British explorer John Walter Gregory to the continuous geographic trench, approximately 6,000 kilometres (3,700 mi) in length, that runs from northern Syria in Southwest Asia to central Mozambique in East Africa. The name continues in some usages, although it is today considered geologically imprecise as it combines features that are today regarded as separate, although related, rift and fault systems.
Gerard David: Gerard David (c. 1460 - August 13, 1523) was an Early Netherlandish painter and manuscript illuminator known for his brilliant use of color.
Grigori Rasputin: Grigori Yefimovich Rasputin (22 January 1869 - 29 December 1916) was a Russian mystic who is perceived as having influenced the latter days of the Russian Tsar Nicholas II, his wife the Tsaritsa Alexandra, and their only son the Tsarevich Alexei. Rasputin had often been called the "Mad Monk", while others considered him a "strannik" and even a starets (, "elder", a title usually reserved for monk-confessors), believing him to be a psychic and faith healer.
GSM: GSM is the most popular standard for mobile telephone systems in the world. The GSM Association, its promoting industry trade organization of mobile phone carriers and manufacturers, estimates that 80% of the global mobile market uses the standard. GSM is used by over 3 billion people across more than 212 countries and territories. Its ubiquity enables international roaming arrangements between mobile phone operators, providing subscribers the use of their phones in many parts of the world.
Flag of Greenland: The flag of Greenland was designed by Greenland native Thue Christiansen. It features two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a large disk slightly to the hoist side of centre. The top half of the disk is red, the bottom half is white. The entire flag measures 12 by 18 parts; each stripe measures 6 parts; the disk is 8 parts in diameter, horizontally offset by 7 parts from the hoist to the centre of the circle, and vertically centered.
Gustav Radbruch: Gustav Radbruch (November 21, 1878 - November 23, 1949) was a German law professor and political figure.
Garry Kasparov: Garry Kasparov (born Garry Kimovich Weinstein, 13 April 1963) is a Russian chess grandmaster, a former World Chess Champion, writer, and political activist, whom many consider the greatest chess player of all time. Kasparov became the youngest ever undisputed World Chess Champion in 1985 at the age of 22. He held the official FIDE world title until 1993, when a dispute with FIDE led him to set up a rival organization, the Professional Chess Association.
Gate: A gate is a point of entry to a space enclosed by walls, or an opening in a fence. Gates may prevent or control entry or exit, or they may be merely decorative. Other terms for gate include yett and port. Larger gates can be used for a whole building, such as a castle or fortified town, or the actual doors that block entry through the gatehouse. Today many gate doors are opened by an automated gate operator.
GATT disambiguation: GATT might be an acronym or abbreviation for: General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Graphics Address Translation Table Gamers Association of Trinidad and Tobago Gatt may refer to: Mike Gatting, an English cricketer Gatt, a type of Handgun
Garbage In Garbage Out: Garbage In, Garbage Out (abbreviated to GIGO, coined as a pun on the phrase First-In, First-Out) is a phrase in the field of computer science or information and communication technology. It is used primarily to call attention to the fact that computers will unquestioningly process the most nonsensical of input data (Garbage in) and produce nonsensical output (Garbage out).
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade: The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (typically abbreviated GATT) was negotiated during the UN Conference on Trade and Employment and was the outcome of the failure of negotiating governments to create the International Trade Organization (ITO). GATT was formed in 1947 and lasted until 1994, when it was replaced by the World Trade Organization in 1995. The original GATT text (GATT 1947) is still in effect under the WTO framework, subject to the modifications of GATT 1994.
Galla Placidia: Aelia Galla Placidia (392 - November 27, 450), daughter of the Roman Emperor Theodosius I, was the consort of Ataulf king of the Goths and after his death the Empress consort of Constantius III, Western Roman Emperor.
GTPase: GTPases (singular GTPase) are a large family of hydrolase enzymes that can bind and hydrolyze guanosine triphosphate (GTP). The GTP binding and hydrolysis takes place in the highly conserved G domain common to all GTPases.
Greek fire: Greek fire was an incendiary weapon used by the Byzantine Empire. The Byzantines typically used it in naval battles to great effect as it could continue burning even on water. It provided a technological advantage, and was responsible for many key Byzantine military victories, most notably the salvation of Constantinople from two Arab sieges, thus securing the Empire's survival.
G protein-coupled receptor: G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), also known as seven-transmembrane domain receptors, 7TM receptors, heptahelical receptors, serpentine receptor, and G protein-linked receptors (GPLR), comprise a large protein family of transmembrane receptors that sense molecules outside the cell and activate inside signal transduction pathways and, ultimately, cellular responses. G protein-coupled receptors are found only in eukaryotes, including yeast, choanoflagellates, and animals.
G protein: G proteins, short for guanine nucleotide-binding proteins, are a family of proteins involved in second messenger cascades. G proteins are so called because they function as "molecular switches". They alternate from 'inactive' guanosine diphosphate (GDP) to 'active' guanosine triphosphate (GTP), which is a binding state, and which proceeds to regulate downstream cell processes. G proteins were discovered when Alfred G. Gilman and Martin Rodbell investigated stimulation of cells by adrenaline.
Galicia Spain: Galicia is an autonomous community and historic region in northwest Spain, with the status of a historic nationality, and descends from one of the first kingdoms of Europe, the Kingdom of Galicia. It is constituted under the Galician Statute of Autonomy of 1981. Its component provinces are A Coru, Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra. It borders Portugal to the south, the Spanish regions of Castile and Le and Asturias to the east, the Atlantic Ocean to the west, and the Bay of Biscay to the north.
Gary Gygax: Ernest Gary Gygax was an American writer and game designer, best known for co-creating the pioneering role-playing game Dungeons & Dragons (D&D) with Dave Arneson. Gygax is generally acknowledged as the father of role-playing games.
Governor of New South Wales: Aside from the Body Politic of the Crown (i.e. the Queen of Australia), the office of Governor of New South Wales is the oldest constitutional office in Australia. Captain Arthur Phillip assumed office as Governor of New South Wales on 7 February 1788, when the Colony of New South Wales, the first British settlement in Australia, was formally founded.
Governor of Victoria: The Governor of Victoria is the representative in the Australian state of Victoria of Australia's monarch, Elizabeth II, Queen of Australia. The Governor performs the same constitutional and ceremonial functions at the state level as does the Governor-General of Australia at the national level. The Governor's office and official residence is Government House in central Melbourne.
Galvanization: Galvanization or galvanisation refers to any of several electrochemical processes named after the Italian scientist Luigi Galvani.
George Bernard Shaw: George Bernard Shaw (26 July 1856 - 2 November 1950) was an Irish playwright. Although his first profitable writing was music and literary criticism, in which capacity he wrote many highly articulate pieces of journalism, his main talent was for drama, and he wrote more than 60 plays. Nearly all his writings deal sternly with prevailing social problems, but have a vein of comedy to make their stark themes more palatable.
The Golden Rule: The Golden Rule is an ethical code that states one has a right to just treatment, and a responsibility to ensure justice for others. It is also called the ethic of reciprocity. It is arguably the most essential basis for the modern concept of human rights, though it has its critics. A key element of the golden rule is that a person attempting to live by this rule treats all people, not just members of his or her in-group, with consideration.
Glasnevin: Glasnevin (Glas Naon, Glas Naon - Stream of the Infants; also known as Glas Naedhe - O'Naeidhes Stream - in Irish) is a largely residential neighbourhood of Dublin, Ireland.
George Abbot author: George Abbot (c. 1603? - 2 February 1648) was an English writer, known as "The Puritan".
GUIDO music notation: GUIDO Music Notation is a computer music notation system designed to logically represent all aspects of music in a format which is both computer-readable and easily readable by human beings. It was named after Guido of Arezzo, who pioneered today's conventional musical notation 1,000 years ago. First designed by Holger H. Hoos and Keith Hamel. Later developments have been done by the SALIERI Project by Holger H. Hoos, Kai Renz and J&uuml;rgen F. Kilian.
Globular cluster: A globular cluster is a spherical collection of stars that orbits a galactic core as a satellite. Globular clusters are very tightly bound by gravity, which gives them their spherical shapes and relatively high stellar densities toward their centers. The name of this category of star cluster is derived from the Latin globulus- a small sphere. A globular cluster is sometimes known more simply as a globular.
Great Vowel Shift: The Great Vowel Shift was a major change in the pronunciation of the English language that took place in the south of England between 1450 and 1750. The Great Vowel Shift was first studied by Otto Jespersen (1860-1943), a Danish linguist and Anglicist, who coined the term.
Gilbert Arthur Beckett: Gilbert Arthur Beckett (1837 - October 15, 1891) was an English writer.
George Vancouver: Captain George Vancouver RN (June 22, 1757 - May 10, 1798) was an officer in the British Royal Navy, best known for his exploration of the North-West Coast of North America, including the shores of the modern day Alaska, British Columbia, Washington and Oregon. He also explored the southwest coast of Australia. Vancouver Island, Canada, the cities of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, and Vancouver, Washington, USA, and Mount Vancouver on the Yukon/Alaska border are all named after him.
George Gordon 1st Earl of Aberdeen: George Gordon, 1st Earl of Aberdeen (6 October 1637 - 20 April 1720), Lord Chancellor of Scotland, was the second son of Sir John Gordon, 1st Baronet, of Haddo, Aberdeenshire, (executed in 1644); by his wife, Mary Forbes.
George Hamilton-Gordon 4th Earl of Aberdeen: George Hamilton-Gordon, 4th Earl of Aberdeen KG KT FRS PC (28 January 1784 - 14 December 1860), styled Lord Haddo from 1791 to 1801, was a Scottish politician, successively a Tory, Conservative and Peelite, who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1852 until 1855.
GnuCash: GnuCash is a free and open source accounting software program that implements a double-entry bookkeeping system. It was initially aimed at developing capabilities similar to Intuit, Inc. 's Quicken application, but also has features for small business accounting. Recent development has been focused on adapting to modern desktop support-library requirements. GnuCash is part of the GNU Project, and runs on Linux, OpenBSD, FreeBSD, Solaris, Mac OS X, and other Unix-like platforms.
Glaucus disambiguation: Glaucus is a Greek name. In modern Greek usage, the name is usually transliterated Glafkos.
Gallon: A gallon is a measure of volume of approximately four litres. Historically it has had many different definitions, but there are three definitions in current use. These are the U.S. liquid gallon ( 3.8 L) and the lesser used U.S. dry gallon ( 4.4 L) which are in use in the United States, and the Imperial (UK) gallon ( 4.5 L) which is in unofficial use within the United Kingdom and Ireland and is in semi-official use within Canada. The gallon, be it the Imperial or U.S.
George Robert Aberigh-Mackay: George Robert Aberigh-Mackay (July 25, 1848 - January 12, 1881), Anglo-Indian writer, son of a Bengal chaplain, was educated at Magdalen College School, Oxford and Cambridge University. Entering the Indian education department in 1870, he became professor of English literature in Delhi College in 1873, tutor to the Raja of Rutlam in 1876, and principal of the Rajkumar College at Indore in 1877.
Governor of New York: New York File:Seal of New York.
Government Communications Headquarters: The Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) is a British intelligence agency responsible for providing signals intelligence (SIGINT) and information assurance to the UK government and armed forces. Based in Cheltenham, it operates under the guidance of the Joint Intelligence Committee.
Francis Gary Powers: Francis Gary Powers (August 17, 1929 - August 1, 1977) was an American pilot whose CIA U-2 spy plane was shot down while violating Soviet Union airspace, causing the 1960 U-2 incident.
Gini coefficient: The Gini coefficient is a measure of statistical dispersion developed by the Italian statistician Corrado Gini and published in his 1912 paper "Variability and Mutability" . It is commonly used as a measure of inequality of income or wealth. It has, however, also found application in the study of inequalities in disciplines as diverse as health science, ecology, and chemistry.
Gospel of James: The Gospel of James, also known as the Infancy Gospel of James or the Protoevangelium of James, is an apocryphal Gospel probably written about AD 150. The Gospel of James may be the earliest surviving document attesting the veneration of Mary by stating her perpetual virginity and presenting her as the new Eve.
Gene therapy: Gene therapy is the insertion of genes into an individual's cells and tissues to treat diseases, such as hereditary diseases where deleterious mutant alleles are replaced with functional ones. Although the technology is still in its infancy, it has been used with some success. Scientific breakthroughs continue to move gene therapy toward mainstream medicine.
Galatea: Galatea is an ancient Greek name meaning "she who is milk-white", most notably referring to: Galatea (mythology), one of three figures of classical myth: Galatea, a woman who prayed for her daughter to be turned into a son, Leucippus (mythology) Galatea, a sea-nymph in Ovid's story of Acis and Galatea (mythology) Galatea, name given in the 18th century to the animated statue sculpted by Pygmalion (mythology) Galatea or Galathea may also refer to:
Grammatical case: In grammar, the case of a noun or pronoun indicates its grammatical function in a greater phrase or clause; such as the role of subject, of direct object, or of possessor. Blake defines it as "a system of marking dependent nouns for the type of relationship they bear to their heads. Traditionally the term refers to inflectional marking... " referring to inflection of morphemes often used to denote case and headedness in syntax.
Gulf of Oman: The Gulf of Oman or Sea of Oman is a strait (and not an actual gulf) that connects the Arabian Sea with the Strait of Hormuz, which then runs to the Persian Gulf. It is generally included as a branch of the Persian Gulf, not as an arm of the Arabian Sea. On the north coast is Pakistan and Iran . On the south coast are Oman in the east, and the United Arab Emirates for a short distance in the west.
Grammatical conjugation: In linguistics, conjugation is the creation of derived forms of a verb from its principal parts by inflection (regular alteration according to rules of grammar). Conjugation may be affected by person, number, gender, tense, aspect, mood, voice, or other grammatical categories. All the different forms of the same verb constitute a lexeme and the form of the verb that is conventionally used to represent the canonical form of the verb (one as seen in dictionary entries) is a lemma.
Gestapo: The Gestapo was the official secret police of Nazi Germany. Beginning in April 1934, it was under the administration of the SS leader Heinrich Himmler in his position as Chief of German Police (Chef der Deutschen Polizei).
Gomoku: Gomoku is an abstract strategy board game and is also called Five in a Row. It is traditionally played with go pieces (black and white stones) on a go board (19x19 intersections); however, because once placed, pieces are not moved or removed from the board, gomoku may also be played as a Paper and pencil game. This game is known in several countries under different names. A four colour variation of the game for 2 - 4 players is known as "Pegity".
Glyph: A glyph is an element of writing. It is a slightly vague term, but a more precise definition might be an individual mark on paper or another written medium that contributes to the meaning of what is written there. A grapheme is made up of one or more glyphs.
Gegenschein: Gegenschein, is a faint brightening of the night sky in the region of the antisolar point.
Goth subculture: The goth subculture is a contemporary subculture found in many countries. It began in the United Kingdom and United States during the early 1980s in the Pan UK-US gothic rock scene, an offshoot of the Post-punk genre and an evolution of the batcave subculture. The goth subculture has survived much longer than others of the same era, and has continued to diversify.
Global warming potential: Global warming potential (GWP) is a measure of how much a given mass of greenhouse gas is estimated to contribute to global warming. It is a relative scale which compares the gas in question to that of the same mass of carbon dioxide (whose GWP is by convention equal to 1). A GWP is calculated over a specific time interval and the value of this must be stated whenever a GWP is quoted or else the value is meaningless.
Greens: Greens may refer to: Leaf vegetables such as collard greens, mustard greens, spring greens, winter greens, spinach, etc.
Grothendieck topology: In category theory, a branch of mathematics, a Grothendieck topology is a structure on a category C which makes the objects of C act like the open sets of a topological space. A category together with a choice of Grothendieck topology is called a site. Grothendieck topologies axiomatize the notion of an open cover. Using the notion of covering provided by a Grothendieck topology, it becomes possible to define sheaves on a category and their cohomology.
Ghost in the Shell: Ghost in the Shell (, Kkaku Kidtai, literally "Mobile Armored Riot Police") is a Japanese multimedia franchise composed of manga, animated films, anime series, video games and novels. It focuses on the activities of the counter-terrorist organization Public Security Section 9 in a futuristic, cyberpunk Japan. The first entry in the franchise was Shirow Masamune's Ghost in the Shell manga, first published in 1989 in Young Magazine.
Gauss Legendre algorithm: The Gauss-Legendre algorithm is an algorithm to compute the digits of . It is notable for being rapidly convergent, with only 25 iterations producing 45 million correct digits of . However, the drawback is that it is memory intensive and it is therefore sometimes not used over Machin-like formulas. The method is based on the individual work of Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777-1855) and Adrien-Marie Legendre (1752-1833) combined with modern algorithms for multiplication and square roots.
General Packet Radio Service: General packet radio service (GPRS) is a packet oriented mobile data service available to users of the 2G cellular communication systems global system for mobile communications (GSM), as well as in the 3G systems.
Game.com: The game. com (pronounced in TV commercials as "game com", not "game dot com" and styled as game. com on marketing material) was a handheld game console released by Tiger Electronics in September 1997. It featured many new ideas for handheld consoles and was aimed at an older target audience, sporting PDA-style features and functions such as a touch screen and stylus. Unlike other handheld game consoles, the first Game.
Georgian: Georgian may refer to: Something from or related to Georgia (country), a country in the Caucasus Georgian people Georgian language Georgian alphabet Something from or related to the U.S.
Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search: The Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search (GIMPS) is a collaborative project of volunteers who use freely available computer software to search for Mersenne prime numbers. The project was founded by George Woltman, who also wrote the software Prime95 and MPrime for the project. Scott Kurowski wrote the PrimeNet server that supports the research to demonstrate Entropia-distributed computing software, a company he founded in 1997.
Georgian architecture: Georgian architecture is the name given in most English-speaking countries to the set of architectural styles current between 1720 and 1840. It is eponymous for the first four British monarchs of the House of Hanover- George I of Great Britain, George II of Great Britain, George III of the United Kingdom, and George IV of the United Kingdom- who reigned in continuous succession from August 1714 to June 1830.
Gnosis: Gnosis (from one of the Greek words for knowledge, ) is the spiritual knowledge of a saint or mystically enlightened human being. Within the cultures of the term's provenance gnosis was a special knowledge or insight into the infinite, divine and uncreated in all and above all, rather than knowledge strictly into the finite, natural or material world which is called Epistemological knowledge. Gnosis is a transcendental as well as mature understanding.
Goshen Indiana: Goshen is a city located in Elkhart County, Indiana, United States. It is the smaller of the two principal cities of the Elkhart-Goshen Metropolitan Statistical Area, which in turn is part of the South Bend-Elkhart-Mishawaka Combined Statistical Area. It is the county seat of Elkhart County and located in the northern Indiana near the Michigan border, in a region known as Michiana.
Gram staining: Gram staining (or Gram's method) is an empirical method of differentiating bacterial species into two large groups based on the chemical and physical properties of their cell walls. The Gram stain is almost always the first step in the identification of a bacterial organism. While Gram staining is a valuable diagnostic tool in both clinical and research settings, not all bacteria can be definitively classified by this technique, thus forming Gram variable and Gram indeterminant groups as well.
Gallipoli: The Gallipoli peninsula is located in Turkish Thrace, the European part of Turkey, with the Aegean Sea to the west and the Dardanelles straits to the east. Gallipoli derives its name from the Greek Kallipolis (), meaning "Beautiful City."
Gram-positive bacteria: Gram-positive bacteria are those that are stained dark blue or violet by Gram staining. This is in contrast to Gram-negative bacteria, which cannot retain the crystal violet stain, instead taking up the counterstain and appearing red or pink. Gram-positive organisms are able to retain the crystal violet stain because of the high amount of peptidoglycan in the cell wall. Gram-positive cell walls typically lack the outer membrane found in Gram-negative bacteria.
Gram-negative bacteria: Gram-negative bacteria are those bacteria that do not retain crystal violet dye in the Gram staining protocol. In a Gram stain test, a counterstain is added after the crystal violet, coloring all Gram-negative bacteria with a red or pink color. The test itself is useful in classifying two distinct types of bacteria based on the structural differences of their cell walls. On the other hand, Gram-positive bacteria will retain the crystal violet dye when washed in a decolorizing solution.
Geometric algebra: In mathematical physics, geometric algebra is a geometric interpretation of nondegenerate Clifford algebras, and a geometric algebra is a nondegenerate Clifford algebra, interpreted geometrically. Geometric algebra provides an alternative to 3-dimensional vector calculus (or more precisely vector algebra), which, unlike vector calculus, generalizes directly to higher dimensions and to space-time.
George Benson: George Benson (born March 22, 1943) is a Grammy Award-winning American musician, whose recording career began at the age of twenty-one as a jazz guitarist. He is also known as a pop, R&B, and scat singer. This one-time child prodigy topped the Billboard 200 in 1976 with the triple-platinum album, Breezin'. He was also a major live attraction in the UK during the 1980s. Benson uses a rest-stroke picking technique very similar to that of gypsy jazz players such as Django Reinhardt.
Genetic: Genetic may refer to: Genetics, in biology, the science of genes, heredity, and the variation of organisms Genetic, used as an adjective, refers to heredity of traits Genetic (linguistics), in linguistics, a relationship between two languages with a common ancestor language Genetic algorithm, in computer science, a kind of search technique modeled on evolutionary biology
Greyhound: The Greyhound is a breed of hunting dog that has been primarily bred for coursing game and racing, but with a recent resurgence of popularity increasingly as a pedigree show dog and family pet. It is a gentle and intelligent breed that often becomes attached to its owner. A combination of long, powerful legs, deep chest, flexible spine and slim build allow it to reach average race speed speeds of in excess of 18 metres per second (59 feet per second) or 65 kilometres per hour (40 mph).
Grigory Barenblatt: Grigory Isaakovich Barenblatt is a Russian mathematician. He graduated in 1950 from Moscow State University, Department of Mechanics and Mathematics. He received his Ph.D. in 1953 from Moscow State University under the supervision of A. N. Kolmogorov. He also received a D. Sc. from Moscow State University in 1957.
Grammatical tense: Grammatical tense is a temporal linguistic quality expressing the time at, during, or over which a state or action denoted by a verb occurs. Tense is one of at least four qualities, along with mood, voice, and aspect, which utterances may express. Tenses represent a contrast of temporal references along the timeline of an utterance.
Grammatical aspect: In linguistics, the grammatical aspect (sometimes called viewpoint aspect) of a verb defines the temporal flow (or lack thereof) in the described event or state. In English, for example, the present tense sentences "I swim" and "I am swimming" differ in aspect (the first sentence is in what is called the habitual aspect, and the second is in what is called the progressive, or continuous, aspect).
Glucose: Glucose (Glc), a simple sugar also known as grape sugar, blood sugar, or corn sugar, is an important carbohydrate in biology. Cells use it as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate. Glucose is one of the main products of photosynthesis and starts cellular respiration in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Starch and cellulose are complex sugars and polymers of glucose.
George P lya: George Pya (December 13, 1887 - September 7, 1985, in Hungarian Pya Gygy) was a Hungarian mathematician.
OpenGL Utility Toolkit: The OpenGL Utility Toolkit (GLUT) is a library of utilities for OpenGL programs, which primarily perform system-level I/O with the host operating system. Functions performed include window definition, window control, and monitoring of keyboard and mouse input. Routines for drawing a number of geometric primitives (both in solid and wireframe mode) are also provided, including cubes, spheres, and the Utah teapot. GLUT even has some limited support for creating pop-up menus.
Giovanni Boccaccio: Giovanni Boccaccio (1313 - 21 December 1375) was an Italian author and poet, a friend, student, and correspondent of Petrarch, an important Renaissance humanist and the author of a number of notable works including the Decameron, On Famous Women, and his poetry in the Italian vernacular.
Giuseppe Verdi: Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi (October 9 or 10, 1813 - January 27, 1901) was an Italian Romantic composer, mainly of opera. He was one of the most influential composers of the 19th century.
German Navy: The German Navy (Deutsche Marine is the navy of Germany and part of the Bundeswehr . The German Navy traces its roots back to the Imperial Fleet of the revolutionary era of 1848-1852 and more directly to the Prussian Navy, which later evolved into the Northern German Federal Navy and became the Imperial Navy . From 1919 to 1921 it was known as the Temporary Imperial Navy and then became the Reichsmarine. It was known as the War Navy from 1935 to 1945.
Gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid: -Hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), also known as 4-hydroxybutanoic acid and sodium oxybate, is a naturally-occurring substance found in the central nervous system, wine, beef, small citrus fruits, and almost all animals in small amounts. It is also categorized as an illegal drug in many countries. It is currently regulated in Australia, Canada, most of Europe and in the US.
Giordano Bruno: Giordano Bruno, born Filippo Bruno (1548 - February 17, 1600), was an Italian Dominican friar, philosopher, mathematician and astronomer, who is best known as a proponent of the infinity of the universe. His cosmological theories went beyond the Copernican model in identifying the sun as just one of an infinite number of independently moving heavenly bodies: he is the first man to have conceptualized the universe as a continuum where the stars we see at night are identical in nature to the Sun.
Geddy Lee: Geddy Lee OC (born Gary Lee Weinrib; July 29, 1953) is a Canadian musician, best known as the lead vocalist, bassist, and keyboardist for the Canadian rock group Rush. Lee joined Rush in September 1968 at the request of his childhood friend Alex Lifeson in order to replace frontman Jeff Jones.
G ANT: GNT is the main European multi-gigabit computer network for research and education purposes. GNT link speeds range from 155 Mbit/s on the slowest spur links to 10 Gbit/s in the core optical fiber network. The GNT project began in November 2000, entered full production operation in December 2001. Originally due to finish in October 2004, it was subsequently extended until April 2005.
Gasparo Contarini: Gasparo Contarini (16 October 1483 - 24 August 1542) was an Italian diplomat and cardinal.
Gilbert Plains Manitoba: Gilbert Plains is a town in Manitoba, Canada. The population is approximately 750, with an additional 1000 in the surrounding municipality of Gilbert Plains. The town lies on Highway 5 and the CN railway line, between Dauphin and Grandview, or about 250 miles NW of Winnipeg. Incorporated in 1906, the original townsite was some miles to the south. The townsite was named for Gilbert Ross, a Mis man who was living in the region when the first European settler, Glenlyon Campbell, arrived.
Geologic time scale: The geologic time scale provides a system of chronologic measurement relating stratigraphy to time that is used by geologists, paleontologists and other earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships between events that have occurred during the history of the Earth. The table of geologic time spans presented here agrees with the dates and nomenclature proposed by the International Commission on Stratigraphy, and uses the standard color codes of the United States Geological Survey.
Gambler's fallacy: The gambler's fallacy, also known as the Monte Carlo fallacy (due to its significance in a Monte Carlo casino in 1913) or the fallacy of the maturity of chances, is the belief that if deviations from expected behaviour are observed in repeated independent trials of some random process then these deviations are likely to be evened out by opposite deviations in the future.
Geiger counter: A Geiger counter, also called a Geiger-Mller counter, is a type of particle detector that measures ionizing radiation. They are notable for being used to detect if objects emit nuclear radiation.
Gastroenterology: Gastroenterology is the branch of medicine whereby the digestive system and its disorders are studied. Etymologically, the name is a combination of three Ancient Greek words, ', and logos. Diseases affecting the gastrointestinal tract, which includes the organs from mouth to anus, along the alimentary canal, are the focus of this specialty. Physicians practicing in this field of medicine are called gastroenterologists.
Gerrymandering: Gerrymandering is a form of boundary delimitation (redistricting) in which electoral district or constituency boundaries are deliberately modified for electoral purposes, thereby producing a contorted or unusual shape. The resulting district is known as a gerrymander; however, that noun can also refer to the process.
Gin: Gin is a spirit whose predominant flavor is derived from juniper berries (Juniperus communis). Whereas several different styles of gin have existed since its origins, gin is broadly differentiated into two basic legal categories. Distilled gin is crafted in the traditional manner, by re-distilling neutral spirit of agricultural origin with juniper berries and other botanicals.
Gulag: The Gulag or GULAG was the government agency that administered one of several Soviet penal labor camp systems. While the camps housed a wide range of convicts, from petty criminals to political prisoners, with large numbers convicted by simplified procedures, such as NKVD troikas and other instruments of extrajudicial punishment, Gulag is recognized as a major instrument of political repression in the Soviet Union.
General Synod: The General Synod is the title of the governing body of some church organizations.
Gall Peters projection: The Gall-Peters projection, named after James Gall and Arno Peters, is one specialization of a configurable equal-area map projection known as the equal-area cylindric or cylindric equal-area projection. The Gall-Peters achieved considerable notoriety in the late 20th century as the centerpiece of a controversy surrounding the political implications of map design.
Gram Parsons: Gram Parsons (November 5, 1946 - September 19, 1973) was an American singer, songwriter, guitarist and pianist. Parsons was a member of the International Submarine Band, The Byrds and The Flying Burrito Brothers. He was later a solo artist who recorded and performed duets with Emmylou Harris. Parsons died of a drug overdose at the age of 26 in a hotel room in Joshua Tree, California. Since his death, he has been credited with helping to found both country rock and alt-country.
Go-fast boat: The dance or go-fast boat or van witsen is a high performance boat of a characteristic design. Originally designed for offshore powerboat racing team by Donald Aronow, the fast, powerful boats became notorious as the drug smuggling boat of choice in many parts of the world starting in the 1980s. These boats were used at first to smuggle cigarettes into Canada and therefore derived their nickname as the "cigarette boat". A company was formed later and trademarked the actual name "cigarette".
Glasgow City Chambers: The City Chambers in Glasgow, Scotland has functioned as the headquarters of Glasgow City Council since 1996, and of preceeding forms of civic government in the city since 1889, located on the eastern side of the city's George Square. The building was constructed between 1882 and 1888 by the architect William Young and is an eminent example of Victorian civic architecture. Inaugurated in August 1888 by Queen Victoria, the first council meeting was held within the buildings in October 1889.
Gone with the Wind: Gone with the Wind, first published on May, 1936, is a romantic novel and the only novel written by Margaret Mitchell. The story is set in Clayton County, Georgia and Atlanta, Georgia during the American Civil War and Reconstruction and follows the life of Scarlett O'Hara, the daughter of an Irish immigrant plantation owner. Scarlett marries two men she does not love, all the while thinking that she is in love with Ashley Wilkes, who has married Melanie Hamilton.
Grok: To grok is to share the same reality or line of thinking with another physical or conceptual entity. Author Robert A. Heinlein coined the term in his best-selling 1961 book Stranger in a Strange Land. In Heinlein's view, grokking is the intermingling of intelligence that necessarily affects both the observer and the observed.
George Washington Carver: George Washington Carver (January 1864 - January 5, 1943), was an American scientist, botanist, educator and inventor. The exact day and year of his birth are unknown; he is believed to have been born before slavery was abolished in Missouri in January 1864. Much of Carver's fame is based on his research into and promotion of alternative crops to cotton, such as peanuts and sweet potatoes.
Geelong Football Club: Geelong Football Club, nicknamed The Cats, is a professional Australian rules football club named after and based in the city of Greater Geelong. Playing in the Australian Football League (AFL), it has been VFL/AFL premiers eight times and won a record nine McClelland Trophies. Formed in 1859, Geelong is the second oldest club in the AFL after Melbourne and one of the oldest football clubs in the world.
Galileo satellite navigation: Galileo is a global navigation satellite system (GNSS) currently being built by the European Union (EU) and European Space Agency (ESA). The 3.4 billion project is an alternative and complementary to the U.S. Global Positioning System (GPS) and the Russian GLONASS. On 30 November 2007 the 27 EU transportation ministers involved reached an agreement that it should be operational by 2013, but later press releases suggest it was delayed to 2014.
Greenwich Village: Greenwich Village, often simply called "the Village", is a largely residential neighborhood on the west side of Lower Manhattan in New York City. A large majority of the district is home to upper middle class families. Greenwich Village, however, was known in the late 19th - earlier to mid 20th centuries as the bohemian capital and the birthplace of the Beat movement.
George S. Kaufman: George Simon Kaufman (16 November 1889 - 2 June 1961) was an American playwright, theatre director and producer, humorist, and drama critic.
Governor of Michigan: The Governor of Michigan is the chief executive of the U.S. state of Michigan. The current governor is Jennifer Granholm, a member of the Democratic Party, who became Michigan's first female governor on January 1, 2003, when she succeeded Governor John Engler. Granholm was re-elected on November 7, 2006.
Gavrilo Princip: Gavrilo Princip (25 July 1894 - 28 April 1918) was a Bosnian Serb patriot, associated with the freedom movement Mlada Bosna (Young Bosnia). Princip assassinated Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria and his wife, Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg, in Sarajevo on 28 June 1914. Princip and his accomplices were arrested and implicated a number of members of the Serbian military, leading Austria-Hungary to issue a darche to Serbia known as the July Ultimatum.
Gilbert N. Lewis: Gilbert Newton Lewis (October 23, 1875 - March 23, 1946) was an American physical chemist known for the discovery of the covalent bond (see his Lewis dot structures and his 1916 paper "The Atom and the Molecule"), his purification of heavy water, his reformulation of chemical thermodynamics in a mathematically rigorous manner accessible to ordinary chemists, his theory of Lewis acids and bases, and his photochemical experiments.
Garfield: Garfield is a comic strip created by Jim Davis. Published since June 19, 1978, it chronicles the life of the title character, the cat Garfield (named after Davis' grandfather); his owner, Jon Arbuckle; and Arbuckle's dog, Odie. As of 2007, it was syndicated in roughly 2,580 newspapers and journals, and held the Guinness World Record for being the world's most widely syndicated comic strip.
Gilbert and Sullivan: Gilbert and Sullivan refers to the Victorian era partnership of librettist W. S. Gilbert (1836-1911) and composer Arthur Sullivan (1842-1900). The two men collaborated on fourteen comic operas between 1871 and 1896, of which H.M.S. Pinafore, The Pirates of Penzance and The Mikado are among the best known.
Graham Chapman: Graham Arthur Chapman (8 January 1941 - 4 October 1989) was an English comedian, actor, writer, physician and one of the six members of the Monty Python comedy troupe. He was also the lead actor in their two narrative films, playing King Arthur in Monty Python and the Holy Grail and Brian in Monty Python's Life of Brian. He co-authored and starred in the film Yellowbeard.
G tterd mmerung: Gterdmerung is the last in Richard Wagner's cycle of four operas titled Der Ring des Nibelungen . It received its premiere at the Bayreuth Festspielhaus on 17 August 1876, as part of the first complete performance of the Ring. The title is a translation into German of the Old Norse phrase Ragnar, which in Norse mythology refers to a prophesied war of the gods that brings about the end of the world.
Genie: In Arabic, a genie (also jinn, Djinn, from Arabic jinn) is a supernatural creature which occupies a parallel world to that of mankind, and together with humans and angels makes up the three sentient creations of God. Possessing free will, a djinn can be either good or evil. The Djinn are mentioned frequently in the Qur'an, and there is a Surah entitled Al-Jinn.
Gallurese: Gallurese (gadduresu) is a diasystem of the Sardinian language, spoken in the Gallura (Gaddura), north-eastern part of Sardinia including the town of Tempio Pausania (Tempiu).
Gary Busey: Gary Busey (born June 29, 1944) is an American film and stage actor and artist.
-gry: The Gry Puzzle is a popular puzzle that asks for the third English word, other than "angry" and "hungry," that ends with the letters "-gry. " Aside from words derived from "angry" and "hungry," there is no stand-alone word ending in "-gry" that is in current usage. Both Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (Merriam-Webster, Inc.
Gray whale: The gray (or grey) whale (Eschrichtius robustus) is a baleen whale that migrates between feeding and breeding grounds yearly. It reaches a length of about 16 meters (52 ft) a weight of 36 tonnes (35 LT; 40 ST) and lives 50-60 years. Gray whales were once called devil fish because of their fighting behavior when hunted. The gray whale is the sole species in the genus Eschrichtius, which in turn is the sole genus in the family Eschrichtiidae.
Giosu Carducci: Giosu Alessandro Michele Carducci (July 27, 1835 - February 16, 1907) was an Italian poet and teacher. He was very influential and was regarded as the official national poet of modern Italy . In 1906 he became the first Italian to win the Nobel Prize in Literature.
List of glues: See adhesive for general discussion of glue. This is a list of various types of glue. Historically, the term "glue" only referred to protein colloids prepared from animal flesh. The meaning has been extended to refer to any fluid adhesive.
Gaussian elimination: In linear algebra, Gaussian elimination is an algorithm for solving systems of linear equations, finding the rank of a matrix, and calculating the inverse of an invertible square matrix. Gaussian elimination is named after German mathematician and scientist Carl Friedrich Gauss. Elementary row operations are used to reduce a matrix to row echelon form. Gauss-Jordan elimination, an extension of this algorithm, reduces the matrix further to reduced row echelon form.
Guantanamo Bay Naval Base: Guantanamo Bay Naval Base is located on 45 square miles of land and water at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba which the United States leased for use as a coaling (fueling) station following the Cuban-American Treaty of 1903. The base is located on the shore of Guantamo Bay at the southeastern end of Cuba. It is the oldest overseas U.S. Navy Base, and the only one in a country with which the United States does not have diplomatic relations.
Gladstone Gander: Gladstone Gander is a Walt Disney fictional character created by comic artist and writer Carl Barks for Western Publishing. Gladstone first appeared in the story "Wintertime Wager" in Walt Disney's Comics and Stories #88 (January, 1948).
Gypsum: Gypsum is a very soft mineral composed of calcium sulfate dihydrate, with the chemical formula CaSO42H2O.
Gordon Michael Woolvett: Gordon Michael Woolvett (born June 12, 1970) is a Canadian-born actor from Hamilton, Ontario Canada, best known for his work as Seamus Zelazny Harper on the television series Andromeda (2000-2005). Previous to Andromeda he starred in another science fiction TV show, Deepwater Black. He also was in an episode of '. He's the younger brother of actor Jaimz Woolvett.
Geyser: A geyser is a spring characterized by intermittent discharge of water ejected turbulently and accompanied by a vapour phase (steam). The word ' comes from Geysir, the name of an erupting spring at Haukadalur, Iceland; that name, in turn, comes from the Icelandic verb ', "to gush", the verb itself from Old Norse. The formation of geysers is due to particular hydrogeological conditions, which exist in only a few places on Earth, so they are a fairly rare phenomenon.
Growth factor: A growth factor is a naturally occurring substance capable of stimulating cellular growth, proliferation and cellular differentiation. Usually it is a protein or a steroid hormone. Growth factors are important for regulating a variety of cellular processes. Growth factors typically act as signaling molecules between cells. Examples are cytokines and hormones that bind to specific receptors on the surface of their target cells.
Gin and tonic: A gin and tonic is a highball cocktail made with gin and tonic water, usually garnished with a slice of lemon or lime and served over ice. The amount of gin varies according to taste from 25% to 50%. In some countries, gin and tonic is marketed pre-mixed in single-serving cans.
Giuseppe Peano: Giuseppe Peano (27 August 1858 - 20 April 1932) was an Italian mathematician, whose work was of exceptional philosophical value. The author of over 200 books and papers, he was a founder of mathematical logic and set theory, to which he contributed much notation. The standard axiomatization of the natural numbers is named in his honor. As part of this axiomatization effort, he made key contributions to the modern rigorous and systematic treatment of the method of mathematical induction.
Gimlet tool: A gimlet is a hand tool for drilling small holes, mainly in wood, without splitting. It was defined in Joseph Gwilt's Architecture (1859) as "a piece of steel of a semi-cylindrical form, hollow on one side, having a cross handle at one end and a worm or screw at the other". A gimlet is always a small tool. A similar tool of larger size is called an auger.
Gent: Gent may refer to any of the following: a shortened form of gentleman Dutch language spelling for the city of Ghent in the Flemish region of Belgium a model for hyperelastic materials Gent (magazine), a men's magazine Gentamicin, an antibiotic a morpheme Gents, a 1997 novel by Warwick Collins
George Eliot: Mary Anne (Mary Ann, Marian) Evans (22 November 1819 - 22 December 1880), better known by her pen name George Eliot, was an English novelist and one of the leading writers of the Victorian era. She is the author of eight novels, including The Mill on the Floss (1860), Silas Marner (1861), Middlemarch (1871-72), and Daniel Deronda (1876), most of them set in provincial England and well known for their realism and psychological insight.
Geometric mean: The geometric mean, in mathematics, is a type of mean or average, which indicates the central tendency or typical value of a set of numbers. It is similar to the arithmetic mean, which is what most people think of with the word "average", except that instead of adding the set of numbers and then dividing the sum by the count of numbers in the set, n, the numbers are multiplied and then the nth root of the resulting product is taken.
GNU Debugger: The GNU Debugger, usually called just GDB and named gdb as an executable file, is the standard debugger for the GNU software system. It is a portable debugger that runs on many Unix-like systems and works for many programming languages, including Ada, C, C++, FreeBASIC, FreePascal and Fortran.
Guru Meditation: Guru Meditation is the name of the error that occurred on early versions of the Commodore Amiga computer when they crashed. It is analogous to the "Blue Screen Of Death" in Microsoft Windows operating systems. Guru Meditation errors also occur on Nintendo DS Homebrew applications, the Varnish http accelerator and the VirtualBox virtualization platform.
Gnumeric: Gnumeric is a spreadsheet program that is part of the GNOME desktop and has Windows installers available. It is distributed as free software under the GNU GPL license. It is intended to be a replacement for proprietary spreadsheet programs such as Microsoft Excel, which it broadly and openly emulates. Gnumeric was created and developed by Miguel de Icaza, but he has since moved on to other projects. The current maintainer is Jody Goldberg.
GNOME Office: GNOME Office is a free office suite for GNOME which consists of: AbiWord word processor Evolution groupware and e-mail application Evince Gnumeric spreadsheet Glom Agnubis presentation tool (was in development; no activity observed lately. ) Criawips Presentation tool that aims to be powerful, but it is still immature.
Galeon: Galeon is a web browser for GNOME based on Mozillas Gecko layout engine. Galeons self-declared mission was to deliver the web and only the web. At the time of Galeons creation, the most popular web browsers, including Netscape, Mozilla, and Internet Explorer, were large multi-functional programs. This made them slow to start and often impractical due to their high memory usage and processor requirements.
Georg Philipp Telemann: Georg Philipp Telemann was a German Baroque music composer and multi-instrumentalist, born in Magdeburg. Self-taught in music, he studied law at the University of Leipzig. Often described as the most prolific composer in history (at least in terms of surviving oeuvre), he was a contemporary of Johann Sebastian Bach, Antonio Vivaldi and a lifelong friend of George Frideric Handel.
Gatling gun: The Gatling gun is one of the best known early rapid-fire weapons and a forerunner of the modern machine gun. Its first combat usage, and the battlefield role it is most well-known for, was its use by the Union forces during the American Civil War in the 1860s. Later it was also famously used in the assault on San Juan Hill during the Spanish-American War.
East Germany: East Germany was the informal Western name for the Deutsche Demokratische Republik or DDR (German Democratic Republic GDR), the communist state established in 1949 in the Soviet zone of occupied Germany and in the East Berlin portion of the Allied-occupied capital city. The German Democratic Republic had an area of 107,771 km. (41,610 mi. ), bordering Czechoslovakia in the south, West Germany in the south and west, the Baltic Sea to the north, and Poland in the east.
Granville rail disaster: The Granville rail disaster occurred on 18 January 1977 at Granville, a suburb in Western Sydney, the state capital of New South Wales, Australia, when a crowded commuter train derailed, running into the supports of a road bridge which came down onto two of its passenger carriages. Eighty-three people died, more than 210 were injured and 1,300 were affected.
Granville New South Wales: Granville, is a suburb in western Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Granville is located 22 kilometres (14 mi) west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Parramatta. A small part in the north-west is located in the Local Government Area of the City of Holroyd. South Granville is a separate suburb with the distinguishing feature of a light industrial area.
Grammatical gender: In linguistics, grammatical genders, sometimes also called noun classes, are classes of nouns reflected in the behavior of associated words; every noun must belong to one of the classes and there should be very few which belong to several classes at once.
GNU Lesser General Public License: The GNU Lesser General Public License (formerly the GNU Library General Public License) or LGPL is a free software license published by the Free Software Foundation (FSF). It was designed as a compromise between the strong-copyleft GNU General Public License or GPL and permissive licenses such as the BSD licenses and the MIT License. The GNU Library General Public License (as the LGPL was originally named) was published in 1991, and was the version number 2 for parity with GPL version 2.
LGBT social movements: Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender social movements share inter-related goals of social acceptance of sexual and gender minorities. Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and their allies have a long history of campaigning for what is generally called LGBT rights, also called gay rights and gay and lesbian rights.
George Gershwin: George Gershwin (September 26, 1898 - July 11, 1937) was an American composer and pianist. Gershwin's compositions spanned both popular and classical genres, and his most popular melodies are widely known. He wrote most of his vocal and theatrical works, including more than a dozen Broadway shows, in collaboration with his elder brother, lyricist Ira Gershwin.
Gosford New South Wales: Gosford is a city located on the Central Coast of New South Wales, Australia, approximately 80 km north of the Sydney central business district. The city is situated at the northern extremity of Brisbane Water, an extensive northern branch of the Hawkesbury River estuary and Broken Bay. The city is the administrative centre of the Central Coast region, which is the third largest urban area in New South Wales after Sydney and Newcastle.
Galileo spacecraft: Galileo was an unmanned spacecraft sent by NASA to study the planet Jupiter and its moons. Named after the astronomer and Renaissance pioneer Galileo Galilei, it was launched on October 18, 1989 by the Space Shuttle Atlantis on the STS-34 mission. It arrived at Jupiter on December 7, 1995, a little more than six years later, via gravitational assist flybys of Venus and Earth.
Gordon Brown: James Gordon Brown (born 20 February 1951) is the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and Leader of the Labour Party. Brown became Prime Minister in June 2007, after the resignation of Tony Blair and three days after becoming leader of the governing Labour Party. Immediately before this he had served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in the Labour government from 1997 to 2007 under Tony Blair.
Glottis: The glottis is defined as the combination of the vocal folds and the space in between the folds.
Garden of Eden: The Garden of Eden is described in the Book of Genesis as being the place where the first man, Adam, and his wife, Eve, lived after they were created by God. Literally, the Bible speaks about a garden in Eden . This garden forms part of the Genesis creation myth and theodicy of the Abrahamic religions, often being used to explain the origin of sin and mankind's wrongdoings. The Genesis creation myth relates the geographical location of both Eden and the garden to four rivers, and three regions.
Geneva College: Geneva College is a Christian liberal arts college in Beaver Falls, Pennsylvania, United States, north of Pittsburgh. Founded in 1848, in Northwood, Ohio, the college moved to its present location in 1880, where it continues to educate a student body of about 1400 traditional undergraduates in over 30 majors, as well as graduate students in a handful of master's programs. It is the only undergraduate institution affiliated with the Reformed Presbyterian Church of North America (RPCNA).
Gurmukh script: Gurmukhi is the most common script used for writing the Punjabi language. An abugida derived from the La script and ultimately descended from Brahmi, Gurmukhi was standardized by the second Sikh guru, Guru Angad Dev Ji, in the 16th century. The whole of the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji's 1430 pages are written in this script. The name Gurmukhi is derived from the Old Punjabi term "guramukh", meaning "from the mouth of the Guru".
Gayo: Gayo may refer to Gayo language of Sumatra, ISO 639-2 Gayo people, a tribe in Aceh, Indonesia Gayo Lues Regency, a regency in Aceh, Indonesia Gayo, or K-pop, the Korean term for pop music Gayo (poem), old form of the Korean traditional poetry
Gorillaz: Gorillaz is a virtual band created in 1998 by Damon Albarn of Britpop band Blur, and Jamie Hewlett, co-creator of the comic book Tank Girl. The band is composed of four animated band members: 2D (lead vocalist, keyboard), Murdoc Niccals (bass guitar), Noodle (lead guitar and occasional vocals) and Russel Hobbs (drums and percussion). The band's music is a collaboration between various musicians, Albarn being the only permanent musical contributor.
Greater Poland: Greater Poland or Great Poland, often known by its Polish name Wielkopolska is a region of west-central Poland. Its chief city is Pozna. The boundaries of Greater Poland have varied somewhat throughout history. The region roughly coincides with the present-day voivodeship (province) called Greater Poland Voivodeship, although some parts of historic Greater Poland are within the Kuyavian-Pomeranian, and Lubusz Voivodeships.
GW-BASIC: GW-BASIC was a dialect of BASIC developed by Microsoft from BASICA, originally for Compaq. It is compatible with Microsoft/IBM BASICA, but was disk based and did not require the ROM BASIC. It was bundled with MS-DOS operating systems on IBM PC compatibles by Microsoft. Microsoft also sold a BASIC compiler, BASCOM, compatible with GW-BASIC, for applications requiring more speed. The language was suitable for simple games, business programs and the like.
Granite: Granite is a common and widely occurring type of intrusive, felsic, igneous rock. Granites usually have a medium to coarse grained texture. Occasionally some individual crystals are larger than the groundmass in which case the texture is known as porphyritic. A granitic rock with a porphyritic texture is sometimes known as a porphyry. Granites can be pink to dark gray or even black, depending on their chemistry and mineralogy. Outcrops of granite tend to form tors, and rounded massifs.
Great Victoria Desert: The Great Victoria Desert is a barren, arid, and sparsely populated desert ecoregion in southern Australia. It falls inside the states of South Australia and Western Australia and consists of many small sandhills, grasslands and salt lakes. It is over 700 kilometres (430 mi) wide and covers an area of 424,400 square kilometres (163,900 sq mi).
Global Climate Coalition: The Global Climate Coalition was a group of mainly United States businesses opposing immediate action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The group formed in 1989 as a response to several reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). A major scientific report on the severity of global warming by the IPCC in 2001 led to large-scale membership loss. Since 2002 the GCC has been defunct, or in its own words, "deactivated".
Gotham City: Gotham City, a fictional city appearing in DC Comics, is best known as the home of Batman. Batman's place of residence was first identified as Gotham City in Batman #4 (Winter 1940).
Charles Goren: Charles Henry Goren (March 4, 1901 - April 3, 1991) was a world champion American bridge player and bestselling author who contributed significantly to the development and popularization of the game.
Game Boy Color: The Game Boy Color is Nintendo's successor to the Game Boy and was released on October 21, 1998 in Japan, November 19, 1998 in North America, November 23, 1998 in Europe and November 27, 1998 in UK. It features a color screen and is slightly thicker and taller than the Game Boy Pocket. As with the original Game Boy, it has an 8-bit processor.. The Game Boy and Game Boy Color combined have sold 118.69 million units worldwide.
Galactus: Galactus is a fictional character appearing in comic books and other publications published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer-editor Stan Lee and artist and co-plotter Jack Kirby, the character debuted in Fantastic Four #48 (March 1966), the first of a three-issue story later known as "The Galactus Trilogy.
Genosha: Genosha is a fictional country that has appeared in numerous comic book series published by Marvel Comics. It is an island nation that exists in Marvel's main shared universe, known as the Marvel Universe. The fictional nation served as an allegory for slavery and later for South African apartheid before becoming a mutant homeland and subsequently a disaster zone. Its capital was the city of Hammer Bay.
Glendower: Glendower can refer to: Owain Glyndr (Owen Glendower), a medieval Welsh nobleman Glendower State Memorial, a historic house in Lebanon, Ohio Shandon, Ohio, which was originally called Glendower Glendower Circuit, a region in Scarborough, Ontario, Canada The Glendower (whiskey), a brand of Scotch whisky
Grinnell College: Grinnell College is a private liberal arts college in Grinnell, Iowa, U.S. with a strong tradition of social activism. It was founded in 1846, when a group of pioneer New England Congregationalists established the Trustees of Iowa College. Grinnell is classified as a more selective institution by the Carnegie Foundation and is ranked fourteenth among liberal arts colleges by U.S. News and World Report. In 2004 it received the "Best All-Around" college rating from Newsweek magazine.
Global warming controversy: The global warming controversy is a dispute regarding the nature, causes, and consequences of global warming. The disputed issues include the causes of increased global average air temperature, especially since the mid-20th century, whether this warming trend is unprecedented or within normal climatic variations, whether humankind has contributed significantly to it, and whether the increase is wholly or partially an artifact of poor measurements.
George Dantzig: George Bernard Dantzig (November 8, 1914 - May 13, 2005) was an American mathematician, and the Professor Emeritus of Transportation Sciences and Professor of Operations Research and of Computer Science at Stanford. Dantzig is known for his development of the simplex algorithm, an algorithm for solving linear programming problems, and his work with linear programming, some years after it was initially invented by Soviet economist and mathematician Leonid Kantorovich.
Geoff Ryman: Geoffrey Charles Ryman (born 1951) is a writer of science fiction, fantasy and surrealistic or "slipstream" fiction. Ryman currently lectures in Creative Writing for University of Manchester's English Department. His most recent full-length novel, The King's Last Song, is set in Cambodia, both at the time of Angkorean emperor Jayavarman VII, and in the present period. He is currently at work on a new historical novel set in the United States before the Civil War.
Gavoi: Gavoi is a comune in central Sardinia, part of the province of Nuoro, in the natural region of Barbagia. It overlooks the Lake of Gusana.
Gusana: Gusana is the name of an artificial lake and of the surrounding area, in the territory of Gavoi, Sardinia, Italy. The lake was built in the 1930s to store water for an electricity generator (central of Coghinadordza), and it covered an ancient Roman bridge as well as an ancient archaeological site of the Nuragici people. It is now a tourist destination.
Gametophyte: In plants and algae that undergo alternation of generations, a gametophyte is the multicellular structure, or phase, that is haploid, containing a single set of chromosomes: The gametophyte produces male or female gametes (or both), by a process of cell division called mitosis. The fusion of male and female gametes produces a diploid zygote, which develops by repeated mitotic cell divisions into a multicellular sporophyte.
Grazia Deledda: Grazia Deledda (September 27, 1871August 15, 1936) was a Italian writer whose works won her a Nobel Prize for Literature in 1926.
Gaspard-Gustave Coriolis: Gaspard-Gustave de Coriolis or Gustave Coriolis (21 May 1792 - 19 September 1843) was a French mathematician, mechanical engineer and scientist. He is best known for his work on the supplementary forces that are detected in a rotating frame of reference, and one of those forces nowadays bears his name. See the Coriolis Effect. Coriolis was the first to coin the term "work" for the transfer of energy by a force acting through a distance.
Province of Grosseto: The Province of Grosseto is a province in the Tuscany region of Italy. Its capital is the city of Grosseto. It has an area of 4,504 km, and a total population of 211,086 (2001). There are 28 comuni in the province . As of June 2005, the main comuni by population are: The Natural Park of Maremma lies in the province . The CIMA Festival is a prestigious gathering of classical music lovers in Monte Argentario.
G za of Hungary: Ga (c. 945 - 997), Grand Prince of the Magyars (before 972 - 997). Ga was the son of Taksony of Hungary, Grand Prince of the Magyars and his Pecheneg or Bulgar wife. Ga's marriage with Sarolt, the daughter of Gyula of Transylvania, was arranged by his father. After his father's death (before 972), Ga followed him as Grand Prince of the Magyars.
Gecko: Geckos are small to average sized lizards belonging to the family Gekkonidae, found in warm climates throughout the world. Geckos are unique among lizards in their vocalizations, making chirping sounds in social interactions with other geckos. An estimated 2,000 different species of geckos exist worldwide, with many likely yet to be discovered. The name stems from the Indonesian/Japanese word Tokek, inspired by the sound these animals make. The Malay word for gecko is cicak.
Game of Life: Game of Life may refer to: The Game of Life, a board game originally created by the Milton Bradley company Conway's Game of Life, a cellular automaton devised by mathematician John Horton Conway
Grindcore: Grindcore is an extreme genre of music that started in the early to mid 1980's. It draws inspiration from some of the most abrasive music genres - including death metal, industrial music, noise and the more extreme varieties of hardcore punk. Grindcore is characterized by heavily distorted, down-tuned guitars, high speed tempo, blast beats, and vocals which consist of growls and high-pitched screams. Early groups like Napalm Death are credited with laying the groundwork for the style.
Glenn T. Seaborg: Glenn Theodore Seaborg was an American scientist who won the 1951 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for "discoveries in the chemistry of the transuranium elements", contributed to the discovery and isolation of ten elements, and developed the actinide concept, which led to the current arrangement of the actinoid series in the periodic table of the elements.
Game show: A game show is a type of radio or television program in which members of the public or celebrities, sometimes as part of a team, play a game which involves answering questions or solving problems usually for money and/or prizes. On some shows contestants compete against other players or another team while other shows involve contestants playing alone for a good outcome or a high score.
Generalized mean: A generalized mean, also known as power mean or Hder mean, is an abstraction of the Pythagorean means including arithmetic, geometric, and harmonic means.
George Frederick Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach: George Frederick the Elder was Margrave of Ansbach and Bayreuth, as well as Regent of Prussia. He was the son of George, Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach and a member of the House of Hohenzollern. George Frederick reigned in his native Ansbach, Franconia and Jerndorf, Upper Silesia since 1556 and, after the death of his cousin Albert Alcibiades in 1557, also in Kulmbach. He took over the administration of the Duchy of Prussia in 1577, when the then-reigning Duke Albert Frederick became ill.
Gerolamo Cardano: "Cardanus" redirects here. For the lunar crater, see Cardanus (crater). For the stag beetle genus, see Cardanus (beetle). Gerolamo Cardano or Girolamo Cardano (French Jerome Cardan, Latin Hieronymus Cardanus; September 24, 1501 September 21, 1576) was an Italian Renaissance mathematician, physician, astrologer and gambler.
George Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach: George the Pious was a Margrave of Brandenburg-Ansbach from the House of Hohenzollern.
Gabbro: Gabbro refers to a large group of dark, coarse-grained, intrusive mafic igneous rocks chemically equivalent to basalt. The rocks are plutonic, formed when molten magma is trapped beneath the Earth's surface and cools into a crystalline mass. The vast majority of the Earth's surface is underlain by gabbro within the oceanic crust, produced by basalt magmatism at mid-ocean ridges.
Gene Roddenberry: Eugene Wesley "Gene" Roddenberry (August 19, 1921 - October 24, 1991) was an American screenwriter, producer and futurist. He created the American science-fiction series Star Trek, an accomplishment for which he was sometimes referred to as the "Great Bird of the Galaxy" due to the show's influence on popular culture. He was one of the first people to have his ashes "buried" in space.
Gilgamesh: Gilgamesh, known as Bilgame in the earliest text, was the fifth king of Uruk (Early Dynastic II, first dynasty of Uruk), ruling circa 2700 BC, according to the Sumerian king list. According to the Tummal Inscription, Gilgamesh, and his son Urlugal, rebuilt the sanctuary of the goddess Ninlil, in Tummal, a sacred quarter in her city of Nippur. Gilgamesh is the central character in the Epic of Gilgamesh, the greatest surviving work of early Mesopotamian literature.
Glen or Glenda: Glen or Glenda (title changed from I Changed My Sex!) is a 1953 exploitation film written, directed by, and starring Ed Wood, and featuring Bela Lugosi, and Wood's then-girlfriend Dolores Fuller. The film is a docudrama about cross-dressing and transsexuality, and is semi-autobiographical in nature. Wood himself was a crossdresser, and the film is a plea for tolerance. However, it has become a cult film due to its low-budget production values and idiosyncratic style.
Gluten: Gluten (from Latin ' "glue") is a composite of the proteins gliadin and glutenin. These exist, conjoined with starch, in the endosperms of some grass-related grains, notably wheat, rye, and barley. Gliadin and glutenin comprise about 80% of the protein contained in wheat seed. Being insoluble in water, they can be purified by washing away the associated starch.
The Golden Turkey Awards: The Golden Turkey Awards is a 1980 book by film critic Michael Medved and his brother Harry Medved. This book is credited with giving the movie Plan 9 from Outer Space by Edward D. Wood, Jr. the reputation of being the "worst movie ever made". The book awards the fictional "Golden Turkey Awards" to films that the Medveds feel are poor in quality, along with directors and actors judged to have created a chronically inept body of work.
Galaxy Quest: Galaxy Quest is a 1999 science fiction comedy film written by David Howard and Robert Gordon and directed by Dean Parisot. It stars Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver and Alan Rickman, and features Tony Shalhoub, Sam Rockwell, Daryl Mitchell, Missi Pyle and Justin Long in his feature-film debut. The original music score was composed by David Newman. The movie, a parody inspired by the television series ', is about the washed-up stars of a fictional 1978-1982 TV series called Galaxy Quest.
George Fox: George Fox (July 1624 - 13 January 1691) was an English Dissenter and a founder of the Religious Society of Friends, commonly known as the Quakers or Friends. The son of a weaver from rural England, Fox was apprenticed to a cobbler. Living in a time of great social upheaval and war, he rebelled against the religious and political consensus by proposing an unusual and uncompromising approach to the Christian faith.
Gilles Apap: Gilles Apap (born May 21, 1963) is a french violinist who plays Romani (gypsy) music, swing, Irish music, and bluegrass music, as well as the masterpieces of classical music. Born in Bougie, he was raised in Nice, France. In 1985 he won the first prize in the contemporary music category at the Yehudi Menuhin Competition. He released a CD with Sony Classical in 1996 called Gilles Apap & the Transylvanian Mountain Boys.
George Duke of Saxony: George the Bearded, Duke of Saxony (b. Meissen, 27 August 1471 - d. Dresden, 17 April 1539), was duke of Saxony from 1500 to 1539. Duke George was a member of the Order of the Golden Fleece.
Gelatin dessert: Gelatin desserts are desserts made with sweetened gelatin. They can be made by combining plain gelatin with other ingredients, or by using a premixed blend of gelatin with other additives. Popular brands of commercial mixes include Jell-O and Knox gelatin from Kraft Foods in North America, Royal in Argentina and Uruguay, Hartley's in the United Kingdom and Aeroplane Jelly in Australia.
Gunpowder Plot: The Gunpowder Plot of 1605, in earlier centuries often called the Gunpowder Treason Plot, was a failed assassination attempt against King James I of England and VI of Scotland by a group of provincial English Catholics led by Robert Catesby.
Gneiss: Gneiss is a common and widely distributed type of rock formed by high-grade regional metamorphic processes from pre-existing formations that were originally either igneous or sedimentary rocks.
Gelatin: Gelatin (spelled "gelatine" in Commonwealth countries, from the French gatine) is a translucent, colorless,brittle, nearly tasteless solid substance, derived from the collagen inside animals' skin and bones. It is commonly used as a gelling agent in food, pharmaceuticals, photography, and cosmetic manufacturing. Substances containing gelatin or functioning in a similar way are called gelatinous.
Gregory of Nazianzus: Gregory of Nazianzus (c. 329 - January 25 389 or 390) (also known as Gregory the Theologian or Gregory Nazianzen) was a 4th-century Archbishop of Constantinople. He is widely considered the most accomplished rhetorical stylist of the patristic age. As a classically trained speaker and philosopher he infused Hellenism into the early church, establishing the paradigm of Byzantine theologians and church officials.
HTML: HTML, which stands for HyperText Markup Language, is the predominant markup language for web pages. It provides a means to create structured documents by denoting structural semantics for text such as headings, paragraphs, lists etc as well as for links, quotes, and other items. It allows images and objects to be embedded and can be used to create interactive forms. It is written in the form of HTML elements consisting of "tags" surrounded by angle brackets within the web page content.
Gro Harlem Brundtland: Gro Harlem Brundtland (born Gro Harlem, 20 April, 1939) is a Norwegian politician, diplomat, and physician, and an international leader in sustainable development and public health. She is a former Prime Minister of Norway, and has served as the Director General of the World Health Organization. She now serves as a Special Envoy on Climate Change for the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. In 2008 she became the recipient of the Thomas Jefferson Foundation Medal in Architecture.
Hacking: Hacking may refer to: Hacker (computer security), computer security hacking Illegal taxicab operation The act of joke thievery Hacking, an area within Hietzing, a municipal district of Vienna, Austria Ian Hacking, Canadian philosopher of science Pleasure riding, horseback riding for purely recreational purposes
History of the Levant: The Levant is a geographical term that refers to a large area in Southwest Asia, south of the Taurus Mountains, bounded by the Mediterranean Sea in the west, the Arabian Desert in the south, and the Zagros Mountains in the east. The term is also sometimes used to refer to modern events or states in the region immediately bordering the eastern Mediterranean Sea: Israel, Palestinian territories, Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria.
Hector: In Greek mythology, Hectr (, "holding fast"), or Hektr, is a Trojan prince and the greatest fighter of Troy in the Trojan War. As the son of Priam and Hecuba, a descendant of Dardanus, who lived under Mount Ida, and of Tros, the founder of Troy, he is a prince of the royal house. He acts as leader of the Trojans and their allies in the defence of Troy.
Hera: Hera was the wife and one of three sisters of Zeus in the Olympian pantheon of classical Greek Mythology. Her chief function was to be the goddess of women and marriage. In Roman mythology, Juno was the equivalent mythical character. The cow, and later, the peacock were sacred to her. Hera's mother was Rhea and her father, Cronus.
Hold come what may: Hold come what may is a phrase popularized by the late Harvard philosophy professor, W. V. Quine. Beliefs that are "held come what may" are beliefs one is unwilling to give up, regardless of any evidence with which one might be presented. Quine held (on a perhaps simplistic construal) that there are no beliefs that one ought to hold come what may- in other words, that all beliefs are rationally revisable.
History of Europe: History of Europe describes the history of humans inhabiting the European continent since it was first populated in prehistoric times to present, with the first human settlement between 45,000 and 25,000 BC.
Howard Hawks: Howard Winchester Hawks (May 30, 1896 - December 26, 1977) was an American film director, producer and screenwriter of the classic Hollywood era. He is popular for his films from a wide range of genres such as Scarface (1932), Bringing Up Baby (1938), Only Angels Have Wings (1939), His Girl Friday (1940), Sergeant York (1941), The Big Sleep (1946), Red River (1948), Gentlemen Prefer Blondes (1953) and Rio Bravo (1959).
GNU Hurd: GNU Hurd (usually referred to as the Hurd) is a free software Unix-like replacement for the Unix kernel, released under the GNU General Public License. It has been under development since 1990 by the GNU Project of the Free Software Foundation. It consists of a set of protocols and server processes that run on top of the GNU Mach microkernel; together they are intended to form the kernel of the GNU operating system.
Haiku: Haiku (haikai verse) listen, plural haiku, is a form of Japanese poetry, consisting of 17 moras, in three metrical phrases of 5, 7, and 5 moras respectively. Haiku typically contain a kigo, or seasonal reference, and a kireji or verbal caesura. In Japanese, haiku are traditionally printed in a single vertical line, while haiku in English usually appear in three lines, to parallel the three metrical phrases of Japanese haiku.
History of Germany: The concept of Germany as a distinct region can be traced to Roman commander Julius Caesar, who referred to the unconquered area east of the Rhine as Germania, thus distinguishing it from Gaul (France), which he had conquered. This was a geographic expression, as the area included both Germanic tribes and Celts. The victory of the Germanic tribes in the Battle of the Teutoberg Forest (AD 9) prevented annexation by the Roman Empire.
Hollywood cycles: In the classic era of Hollywood cinema (1930 - 1945) "cycles" or genres matured. They were called cycles, which was a short term for stories that were similar. While we would recognize many of the genres as Westerns, gangsters, musicals, etc. , often the cycles were significantly more specific. Instead of "romantic comedy" it might be "Boy-meets-girl-boy-loses-girl-boy-gets-girl" cycle.
Hades: Hades ( or ; from Greek, Hads, originally , Haids or , Aids, meaning "the unseen") refers both to the ancient Greek underworld, the abode of Hades, and to the god of the underworld. Hades in Homer referred just to the god; the genitive , Haidou, was an elision to denote locality: "[the house/dominion] of Hades". Eventually, the nominative, too, came to designate the abode of the dead. In Greek mythology, Hades is the oldest male child of Cronus and Rhea.
Homo disambiguation: Homo may refer to: the Latin for man, human being Homo, the taxonomical genus including modern humans (Homo sapiens) the Greek prefix - an abbreviation for homogenized milk (Canadian English) slang term (adjective or noun) for homosexual HomO, short name of the Swedish Ombudsman against Discrimination on Grounds of Sexual Orientation Homo, the wolfhound in Victor Hugo's novel The Man Who Laughs acronym HOMO Highest Occupied Molecular Orbital, in chemistry: see HOMO/LUMO
Healthcare reform: Healthcare reform is a general rubric used for discussing major health policy creation or changes- for the most part, governmental policy that affects healthcare delivery in a given place.
Henry Mayhew: Henry Mayhew (25 November 1812 - 25 July 1887) was an English social researcher, journalist, playwright and advocate of reform. He was one of the two founders (1841) of the satirical and humorous magazine Punch, and the magazine's joint-editor, with Mark Lemon, in its early days.
Hydrocarbon: In organic chemistry, a hydrocarbon is an organic compound consisting entirely of hydrogen and carbon. Hydrocarbons from which one hydrogen atom has been removed are functional groups, called hydrocarbyls. Aromatic hydrocarbons (arenes), alkanes, alkenes, cycloalkanes and alkyne-based compounds are different types of hydrocarbons.
Halogen: The halogens or halogen elements are a series of nonmetal elements from Group 17 IUPAC Style of the periodic table, comprising fluorine, (F); chlorine, (Cl); bromine, (Br); iodine, (I); and astatine, (At). The undiscovered element 117, provisionally referred to by the systematic name ununseptium, may also be a halogen. The group of halogens is the only periodic table group which contains elements in all three familiar states of matter at standard temperature and pressure.
Helium: Helium is the chemical element with atomic number 2 and an atomic weight of 4.0026, which is represented by the symbol He. It is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, inert monatomic gas that heads the noble gas group in the periodic table. Its boiling and melting points are the lowest among the elements and it exists only as a gas except in extreme conditions. Next to hydrogen, it is the second most abundant element in universe, and accounts for 24% of the elemental mass of our galaxy.
Homepage: The homepage (often written as home page) is the URL or local file that automatically loads when a web browser starts or when the browser's "home" button is pressed. One can turn this feature off and on, as well as specify a URL for the page to be loaded. The term is also used to refer to the front page, webserver directory index, or main web page of a website of a group, company, organization, or individual.
Hydrogen: Hydrogen is the chemical element with atomic number 1. It is represented by the symbol H. With an atomic weight of 1.00794 u, hydrogen is the lightest and most abundant chemical element, constituting roughly 75 % of the Universe's elemental mass. Stars in the main sequence are mainly composed of hydrogen in its plasma state. Naturally occurring elemental hydrogen is relatively rare on Earth.
Hee Haw: Hee Haw was an American television variety show featuring country music and humor with fictional rural Kornfield Kounty as a backdrop. It aired on CBS-TV from 1969-1971 before a 20-year run in local syndication. The show was inspired by Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In, the major difference being that Hee Haw was far less topical, and was centered on country music.
Hitler disambiguation: Hitler commonly refers to Adolf Hitler (1889-1945), the dictator of Nazi Germany from 1933 to 1945. Hitler may also refer to:
Hex: A hex is a magical spell, usually with malevolent purposes such as a curse. The term is derived from the German word Hexe for a witch. Hexa- is a prefix from the Greek word for 'six', as in hexagon, a polygon with six corners. Hex may also refer to:
Hexadecimal: In mathematics and computer science, hexadecimal is a positional numeral system with a radix, or base, of 16. It uses sixteen distinct symbols, most often the symbols 0-9 to represent values zero to nine, and A, B, C, D, E, F (or alternatively a through f) to represent values ten to fifteen. For example, the hexadecimal number 2AF3 is equal, in decimal, to (2 16) + (10 16) + (15 16) + 3, or 10,995.
Histogram: In statistics, a histogram is a graphical display of tabulat frequencies, shown as bars. It shows what proportion of cases fall into each of several categories: it is a form of data binning. The categories are usually specified as non-overlapping intervals of some variable. The categories (bars) must be adjacent. The intervals (or bands, or bins) are generally of the same size, but not necessarily so.
Hilter: Hilter is a municipality in the district Osnabrck, Lower Saxony, Germany. It is located in the hills of the Teutoburg Forest. As of 2004 it has a population of 10,179, and covers an area of 52.61 km. Highest elevation is the Hohnangel with 262 m above sea level. The municipality was united on July 14th 1972 by merging the municipalities Borgloh, Hankenberge and Hilter.
Human anatomy: Human anatomy (gr. , "dissection", from , "up", and , "cut"), which, with human physiology and biochemistry, is a complementary basic medical science, is primarily the scientific study of the morphology of the human body. Anatomy is subdivided into gross anatomy and microscopic anatomy. Gross anatomy (also called topographical anatomy, regional anatomy, or anthropotomy) is the study of anatomical structures that can be seen by unaided vision.
Hearse: A hearse is a funeral vehicle, a conveyance for the coffin from e.g. a church to a cemetery, a similar burial site, or a crematorium. In the funeral trade, they are often called funeral coaches.
Historiography: Historiography is the study of the history and methodology of the discipline of history. As such, it uses semiotics to consider how knowledge of the past is obtained and transmitted. Formally, historiography examines the writing of history, the use of historical methods, drawing upon authorship, sources, interpretation, style, bias, and the reader; moreover, historiography also denotes a body of historical work. Scholars discuss historiography topically, i.e.
Holiday: A holiday is a day designated as having special significance for which individuals, a government, or a religious group have deemed that observation is warranted.
Holy Roman Empire: The Holy Roman Empire was a union of territories in Central Europe during the Middle Ages and the Early Modern period under a Holy Roman Emperor. The first emperor of the Holy Roman Empire was Otto I, crowned in 962. The last was Francis II, who abdicated and dissolved the Empire in 1806 during the Napoleonic Wars. In a decree following the 1512 Diet of Cologne, the name was officially changed to Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation .
Hobby: A hobby is an activity or interest that is undertaken for pleasure or relaxation, often in one's spare time.
Hawaii: Hawaii is the newest of the 50 or . Hawaii has produced one U.S. President, Barack Obama.
Holland: Holland Holland is a name in common usage given to a region in the western part of the Netherlands. Moreover, the term Holland is frequently used to refer to the whole of the Netherlands. This usage is unofficial and ambiguous but generally accepted. From the 10th century to the 16th century Holland proper was a unified political region, a county ruled by the Count of Holland.
Hungary: Hungary /ri/, officially the Republic of Hungary (Magyar Ktsas), is a landlocked country in the Carpathian Basin in Central Europe, bordered by Austria, Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Croatia, and Slovenia. Its capital is Budapest. Hungary is a member of EU, NATO, OECD, V4 and is a Schengen state. The official language is Hungarian, which is part of the Finno-Ugric family, thus one of the four official languages of the European Union that are not of Indo-European origin.
Habitus sociology: Habitus is a complex concept, but in its simplest usage could be understood as a structure of the mind characterized by a set of acquired schemata, sensibilities, dispositions and taste . The particular contents of the habitus are the result of the objectification of social structure at the level of individual subjectivity. Hence, the habitus is, by definition, isomorphic with the structural conditions in which it emerged.
Harold and Maude: Harold and Maude is a 1971 American film directed by Hal Ashby. It incorporates elements of dark humor and existentialist drama, with a plot that revolves around the exploits of a young man intrigued with death, Harold. Harold drifts away from the life that his detached mother prescribes for him, and develops a relationship with septuagenarian Maude. The screenplay upon which the film was based was written by Colin Higgins, and published as a novel in 1971.
History of the Netherlands: During the period of the Roman Empire, areas south of the Rhine were included in the province of Gallia Belgica, and later of Germania Inferior. The country was inhabited at the time by various Germanic tribes, and the south was inhabited by Gauls, who merged with newcomers from other Germanic tribes during the migration period. The Salian Franks migrated to Gaul from this region, establishing by the 5th century the powerful Merovingian dynasty.
Hypoxia medical: Hypoxia is a pathological condition in which the body as a whole (generalized hypoxia) or a region of the body (tissue hypoxia) is deprived of adequate oxygen supply. Variations in arterial oxygen concentrations can be part of the normal physiology, for example, during strenuous physical exercise. A mismatch between oxygen supply and its demand at the cellular level may result in a hypoxic condition. Hypoxia in which there is complete deprivation of oxygen supply is referred to as anoxia.
Historical revisionism: Within historiography, that is part of the academic field of history, historical revisionism is the reinterpretation of orthodox views on evidence, motivations, and decision-making processes surrounding a historical event. The revisionist assumes the interpretation of a historical event or period, as accepted by the majority of scholars, needs significant change.
History of the petroleum industry in the United States: The history of the petroleum industry in the United States goes back to the early 1800s, although indigenous people in the US have used petroleum since prehistoric times. Petroleum became a major industry follwing the oil discovery at Oil Creek Pennsylvania in 1859. For much of the 19th and 20th centuries, the US was the largest oil producing country in the world; it is now the 3rd largest.
Hudson's Bay Company: The Hudson's Bay Company, abbreviated HBC, is the oldest commercial corporation in North America and one of the oldest in the world. The company was incorporated by British royal charter in 1670 as The Governor and Company of Adventurers of England trading into Hudson's Bay; it is now domiciled in Canada and has adopted the more common shorter name as its legal moniker. It was once the de facto government in parts of North America before European-based colonies and states.
History of Turkey: The Republic of Turkey is the successor state of the Ottoman Empire, created after the overthrow of Sultan Mehmet VI Vahdettin by the new Republican Parliament in 1922. This new regime delivered the coup de gre to the Ottoman state which had been practically wiped away from the world stage following the First World War.
Hoplite: A hoplite was a citizen-soldier of the Ancient Greek City-states. Hoplites were primarily armed as spear-men and fought in an phalanx formation. The word hoplite derives from hoplon (, plural hopla ), the type of the shield used by the troopers, although as a word "hoplon" could also denote weapons held or even full armament. Warfare in ancient Greece appears to have consisted of battles between independent nations. The hoplite was an effective solution to this situation.
History of Spain: The history of Spain spans the period from prehistoric Iberia, through the rise and fall of a global empire, to the recent history of Spain as a member of the European Union. Modern humans entered the Iberian Peninsula about 32,000 years ago. Different populations and cultures followed over the millennia, including the Iberians, the Tartessians, Celts and Celtiberians, Phoenicians, Greeks, Carthaginians, Romans, Suebi and Visigoths.
Hold more stubbornly at least: Hold more stubbornly at least is a phrase popularized by the late Harvard philosophy professor, W. V. Quine. In W. V. Quine's conception of a person's set of beliefs as a "seamless web", there is a lack of propositions which one could, in principle, not give upif there were, there would be a "seam" in the web, protecting the principle from revision or rejectionor hold come what may. However, some beliefs may be more useful than others, or may be implied by a large number of beliefs.
Muslim history: Muslim history involves the history of the Islamic faith as a religion and as a social institution. According to Islamic Faith and the Holy Text, it is wrong to say that the history of Islam began in Arabia with Muslim Prophet Muhammad's first recitations of the Qur'an in the 7th century, but with Adam and Eve. They are considered the First Apostles of God. Later, Abraham, Moses and Jesus all taught the same faith as prophets, albeit in different regions or at different points of time.
Hittites: The Hittites were an ancient Anatolian people who spoke a language of the Anatolian branch of the Indo-European language family and established a kingdom centered at Hattusa (Hittite attua) in north-central Anatolia (on the Central Anatolian plateau) ca. the 18th century BC. The Hittite empire reached its height ca.
Hormone: A hormone (from Greek - "impetus") is a chemical released by a cell in one part of the body, that sends out messages that affect cells in other parts of the organism. Only a small amount of hormone is required to alter cell metabolism. It is essentially a chemical messenger that transports a signal from one cell to another. All multicellular organisms produce hormones; plant hormones are also called phytohormones. Hormones in animals are often transported in the blood.
Hammond organ: The Hammond organ is an electric organ which was invented by Laurens Hammond in 1934 and manufactured by the Hammond Organ Company. While the Hammond organ was originally sold to churches as a lower-cost alternative to the wind-driven pipe organ, in the 1960s and 1970s, it became a standard keyboard instrument for jazz, blues, rock music and gospel music.
Hideki T j: Hideki Tj (30 December 1884 - 23 December 1948) was a general in the Imperial Japanese Army, member and succeeding leader of the Taisei Yokusankai and the 40th Prime Minister of Japan during much of World War II, from 18 October 1941 to 22 July 1944. After the end of the war, Tj was sentenced to death for war crimes by the International Military Tribunal for the Far East and executed by hanging on 23 December 1948.
Hugo Award: The Hugo Awards are given every year for the best science fiction or fantasy works and achievements of the previous year. The award is named after Hugo Gernsback, the founder of the pioneering science fiction magazine Amazing Stories. Hugo Awards have been presented every year since 1955.
List of historical anniversaries: Condensed list of historical anniversaries.
Hypoglycemia: Hypoglycemia or hypoglycia is the medical term for a state produced by a lower than normal level of blood glucose. The term literally means "under-sweet blood" (Gr. hypo-, glykys, haima). Hypoglycemia can produce a variety of symptoms and effects but the principal problems arise from an inadequate supply of glucose as fuel to the brain, resulting in impairment of function. Effects can range from vaguely "feeling bad" to seizures, unconsciousness, and (rarely) permanent brain damage or death.
Helsingborg Municipality: Helsingborg Municipality (Helsingborgs kommun) is a municipality in Ske County in Sweden. Its seat is located in the city of Helsingborg, which is Sweden's eighth largest city. The municipality had a population of 128,400 in January 2010, and the population is increasing with roughly 1600 people annually. The present municipality was created in 1971 through the amalgamation of the City of Hsingborg with four surrounding rural municipalities.
Human geography: Human geography is an interdisciplinary field combining approaches from academic geography with the traditional subject matter of social science, thus emphasizing population issues such as tourism, urbanisation, and so on. Human/mankind geography broadly differs from physical geography in that it has a greater focus on studying intangible or abstract patterns surrounding human activity and is more receptive to qualitative research methodologies.
Henry Ford: Henry Ford (July 30, 1863 - April 7, 1947) was the American founder of the Ford Motor Company and father of modern assembly lines used in mass production. His introduction of the Model T automobile revolutionized transportation and American industry. He was a prolific inventor and was awarded 161 U.S. patents. As owner of the Ford Motor Company he became one of the richest and best-known people in the world.
Demographics of Haiti: Although Haiti averages approximately 250 people per square kilometer (650 per sq. mi. ), its population is concentrated most heavily in urban areas, coastal plains, and valleys. About 95% of Haitians are of predominantly West African descent. The remainder of the population is primarily mulattoes. There are tiny Arab, Asian and White communities. Hispanic residents in Haiti are mostly Cuban and Dominican. About two thirds of the Haitian population live in rural areas.
History of Haiti: The recorded history of Haiti began on December 5, 1492 when the European navigator Christopher Columbus happened upon a large island in the region of the western Atlantic Ocean that later came to be known as the Caribbean Sea. It was inhabited by the Tano, an Arawakan people, who variously called their island Ayiti, Bohio, or Kiskeya. Columbus promptly claimed the island for the Spanish Crown, and renamed it La Isla Espala ("the Spanish Island"), or Hispala.
Economy of Haiti: Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. Two-thirds of all Haitians depend on the agriculture sector, mainly small-scale subsistence farming, and remain vulnerable to damage from frequent natural disasters, exacerbated by the country's widespread deforestation. A macroeconomic program developed in 2005 with the help of the International Monetary Fund helped the economy grow 1.8% in 2006, the highest growth rate since 1999.
Politics of Haiti: The Politics of Haiti take place in a framework of a semi-presidential republic, pluriform multiparty system whereby the President of Haiti is head of state directly elected by popular vote. The Prime Minister acts as head of government, and is appointed by the President from the majority party in the National Assembly. Executive power is exercised by the President and Prime Minister who together constitute the government.
Telecommunications in Haiti: Radio broadcast stations: AM 41, FM 26, shortwave 0 (1999) Radios: 500,000 (1997)
Transport in Haiti: All of the major transportation systems in Haiti are located near or run through the capital, Port-au-Prince.
Military of Haiti: The country of Haiti currently has no regular military. The former Haitian Armed Forces were demobilized. Haiti's current forces consist of the Haitian National Police, which has a highly trained and equipped SWAT team, and the Haitian Coast Guard. The regular Haitian Army, Navy, and Air Force still exist on paper until constitutionally abolished.
Haiti: Haiti, officially the Republic of Haiti (Rublique d'Hati; Repiblik Ayiti) is a Caribbean country. Along with the Dominican Republic, it occupies the island of Hispaniola, in the Greater Antillean archipelago. Ayiti (land of high mountains) was the indigenous Tano or Amerindian name for the mountainous western side of the island. The country's highest point is Pic la Selle, at 2,680 metres (8,793 ft). The total area of Haiti is 27,750 square kilometres and its capital is Port-au-Prince.
Geography of Haiti: The Republic of Haiti comprises the western third of the island of Hispaniola, west of the Dominican Republic. It is positioned between the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean. Haiti's geographic coordinates are at a longitude of 72 25&prime; west and a latitude of 19 00&prime; north. The total area is 27,750 square kilometres (10,710 sq mi), of which 27,560 square kilometres (10,640 sq mi) is land and 190 square kilometres (73 sq mi) is water. Haiti is slightly smaller than the U.S.
Foreign relations of Ha ti: Disputes - international: claims US-administered Navassa Island Illicit drugs: major Caribbean transshipment point for cocaine en route to the US and Europe
History of Honduras: Honduras was already occupied by many indigenous peoples when the Spanish arrived in the 16th century. The area in extreme western Honduras was occupied by the Maya people; the western-central part of Honduras was inhabited by the Lencas, the central north coast by the Tol, the area east of Trujillo by the Pech and the Miskito and Sumo. These autonomous groups maintained commercial relationships with each other and with other populations as distant as Panama and Mexico.
Holy See: The Holy See is the episcopal jurisdiction of the Bishop of Rome (who is commonly known as the Pope), and is the preeminent episcopal see of the Catholic Church, forming the central government of the Church. As such, diplomatically, and in other spheres the Holy See acts and speaks for the whole Catholic Church. It is also recognized by other subjects of international law as a sovereign entity, headed by the Pope, with which diplomatic relations can be maintained.
Heard Island and McDonald Islands: The Heard Island and McDonald Islands (abbreviated as HIMI) are an Australian external territory and volcanic group of barren Antarctic islands, about two-thirds of the way from Madagascar to Antarctica, approximately 4099 km southwest of Perth, 3845 km southwest of Cape Leeuwin, Australia, 4200 km southeast of South Africa, 3830 km southeast of Madagascar, 1630 km north of Antarctica, and 450 km southeast of Kerguelen.
Honduras: Honduras is a republic in Central America. It was formerly known as Spanish Honduras to differentiate it from British Honduras. The country is bordered to the west by Guatemala, to the southwest by El Salvador, to the southeast by Nicaragua, to the south by the Pacific Ocean at the Gulf of Fonseca, and to the north by the Gulf of Honduras, a large inlet of the Caribbean Sea. Its size is just over 112,000 km with an estimated population of almost 8 million. Its capital is Tegucigalpa.
Demographics of Honduras: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Honduras, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Geography of Honduras: Honduras is a country situated in Central America. Honduras borders the Caribbean Sea and the North Pacific Ocean. Guatemala lies to the west, Nicaragua to the south east and El Salvador to the south west. It is the second largest Central American republic. The triangular-shaped country has a total area of just over 43,000 square miles.
Politics of Honduras: Politics of Honduras takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Honduras is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in the National Congress of Honduras. The party system is dominated by the conservative National Party of Honduras and the liberal Liberal Party of Honduras.
Transport in Honduras: Transportation in Honduras refers to transport in Honduras, a country in Central America.
Military of Honduras: This article deals with the armed forces of Honduras.
Foreign relations of Honduras: Honduras is a member of the United Nations, the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Central American Parliament (PARLACEN), the Central American Integration System (SICA), and the Central American Security Commission (CASQ). During 1995-96, Honduras, a founding member of the United Nations, for the first time served as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
Economy of Honduras: The economy of Honduras is based mostly on agriculture, which accounted for 22% of its gross domestic product (GDP) in 1999. Leading export coffee ($340 million) accounted for 22% of total Honduran export revenues. Bananas, formerly the country's second-largest export until being virtually wiped out by 1998's Hurricane Mitch, recovered in 2000 to 57% of pre-Mitch levels. Cultivated shrimp are another important export sector.
Telecommunications in Honduras: File:Wiki letter w. svg Please help improve this article by expanding it. Further information might be found on the talk page. Telephones - main lines in use: 400,000 (2005) land lines. Telephones - mobile cellular: 1,114,427 (2005) Telephone system: Digital infrastructure, privatization of all services in December 2005.
Geography of Hong Kong: The geography of Hong Kong primarily consists of three main territories: Hong Kong Island, Kowloon Peninsula, and the New Territories. The name "Hong Kong", literally meaning "fragrant harbour", is derived from the area around present-day Aberdeen on Hong Kong Island, where fragrant wood products and fragrant incense were once traded. The narrow body of water separating Hong Kong Island and Kowloon Peninsula, Victoria Harbour, is one of the deepest natural maritime ports in the world.
Politics of Hong Kong: Politics of Hong Kong takes place in a framework of a political system dominated by its constitutional document, the Basic Law of Hong Kong, its own legislature, the Chief Executive as the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. On 1 July 1997, sovereignty of Hong Kong was transferred to the People's Republic of China (PRC), ending over a one and half century of British rule.
Communications in Hong Kong: A wide-ranging and sophisticated communications network has developed in Hong Kong, reflecting its thriving commerce and international importance. See also Telecommunications industry in Hong Kong There are some 60 online newspapers (in various languages, but mostly Chinese) and the numbers of online periodicals run into the hundreds. The territory is in addition the East and Southeast Asian headquarters for most of the major international communications and media services.
Hong Kong: Hong Kong is one of the two special administrative regions of the People's Republic of China; the other is Macau. Situated on China's south coast and enclosed by the Pearl River Delta and South China Sea, it is renowned for its expansive skyline and deep natural harbour. With land mass of 1,104 km (426 sq mi) and a population of seven million people, Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated areas in the world. Hong Kong's population is 95% ethnic Chinese and 5% from other groups.
Demographics of Hong Kong: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Hong Kong, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated areas in the world with an overall density of some 6,300 people per square kilometre.
Economy of Hong Kong: Hong Kong's highly favorable geographical position and entrepot trading opportunities are wealth-generating assets. Hong Kong's gross domestic product, between 1961 and 1997, has grown 180 times larger than the former while per capita GDP rose by 87 times. Prior to mid 19th century, this had made Hong Kong a major haven for pirates before it became a British colony in 1841. Under British administration, it soon developed into a thriving legitimate international port.
Transport in Hong Kong: Hong Kong has a highly developed and sophisticated transport network, encompassing both public and private transport. Over 90% of the daily journeys are on public transport, making it the highest rate in the world. Since 1997, an electronic money system, namely the Octopus card, has been introduced to provide an alternative to the traditional banknotes and coins.
Foreign relations of Hong Kong: Hong Kong is a special administrative region (SAR) of the People's Republic of China (PRC). Under the Basic Law of Hong Kong, its diplomatic relations and defence are the responsibility of the Central People's Government of the PRC. Nonetheless, Hong Kong has retained considerable autonomy in all aspects, including economic and commercial relations, customs control, except diplomatic relations and defence.
Geography of Hungary: With a land area of 93,030 square kilometers, Hungary is a country in Central Europe. It measures about 250 kilometers from north to south and 524 kilometers from east to west. It has 2,258 kilometers of boundaries, shared with Austria to the west, Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia to the south and southwest, Romania to the southeast, the Ukraine to the northeast, and Slovakia to the north.
Demographics of Hungary: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Hungary, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Hungary: Politics of Hungary takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Hungary is the head of government, and of a pluriform multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The party system is dominated by the social democratic Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) and the conservative Fidesz.
Economy of Hungary: The economy of Hungary is a medium-sized, structurally, politically and institutionally open economy in Central Europe and is part of the European Union's (EU) single market. Like most Eastern European economies, the economy of Hungary experienced market liberalisation in the early 1990s as part of the transition from socialist economy to market economy.
Military of Hungary: The term Honvs continued to be the name of the Hungarian military after the end of World War I and the dissolution of the empire. The Hungarian army is still called Magyar Honvs to this day, and the rank equal to private is honv. This term is also used in the name of the Hungarian football club, Budapest Honv FC, originally the army football team.
Transport in Hungary: Motorways: M0 - M1 - M2 - M15 - M3 - M30 - M35 - M5 - M6 - M7 - M70 New motorway sections are being added to the existing network, that already connects many major economically important cities to the Capital City.
Foreign relations of Hungary: Hungary also has improved its often frosty neighborly relations by signing basic treaties with Romania, Slovakia, and Ukraine. These renounce all outstanding territorial claims and lay the foundation for constructive relations. However, the issue of ethnic Hungarian minority rights in Slovakia and Romania periodically causes bilateral tensions to flare up.
Hg: HG and Hg may refer to:
Henryk Sienkiewicz: Henryk Adam Aleksander Pius Sienkiewicz (May 5, 1846-November 15, 1916) was a Polish journalist and Nobel Prize-winning novelist. A Polish szlachcic (noble) of the Oszyk coat of arms, he was one of the most popular Polish writers at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, and received the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1905 for his "outstanding merits as an epic writer.
Hydrology: Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout Earth, and thus addresses both the hydrologic cycle and water resources. A practitioner of hydrology is a hydrologist, working within the fields of either earth or environmental science, physical geography, geology or civil and environmental engineering.
Heinrich Hertz: Heinrich Rudolf Hertz (February 22, 1857 - January 1, 1894) was a German physicist who clarified and expanded the electromagnetic theory of light that had been put forth by Maxwell. He was the first to satisfactorily demonstrate the existence of electromagnetic waves by building an apparatus to produce and detect VHF or UHF radio waves.
Hypertext Transfer Protocol: The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an Application Layer protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypermedia information systems. HTTP is a request/response standard typical of client-server computing. In HTTP, web browsers or spiders typically act as clients, while an application running on the computer hosting the web site acts as a server. The client, which submits HTTP requests, is also referred to as the user agent.
Heinrich Himmler: Heinrich Luitpold Himmler (7 October 1900 - 23 May 1945) was considered one of the most powerful men in Nazi Germany. Himmler served as Chief of the German Police and Minister of the Interior. As Reichsfhrer-SS, he oversaw all internal and external police and security forces, including the Gestapo.
Howland Island: Howland Island is an uninhabited coral island located just north of the equator in the central Pacific Ocean, about 1,700 nautical miles (3,100 km) southwest of Honolulu. The island lies almost halfway between Hawaii and Australia and is an unincorporated, unorganized territory of the United States. Geographically, it is part of the Phoenix Islands. For statistical purposes, Howland is grouped as one of the United States Minor Outlying Islands.
Horace Walpole 4th Earl of Orford: Horatio Walpole, 4th Earl of Orford (24 September 1717 - 2 March 1797), more commonly known as Horace Walpole, was an English art historian, man of letters, antiquarian and politician. He is now largely remembered for Strawberry Hill, the home he built in Twickenham, south-west London where he revived the Gothic style some decades before his Victorian successors, and for his Gothic novel, The Castle of Otranto.
Horace Engdahl: Horace Oscar Axel Engdahl (born December 30, 1948) is a Swedish literary historian and critic, and has been a member of the Swedish Academy since 1997. He was the permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy, i.e. its spokesman, from 1999 to June 2009, when he was succeeded by historian Peter Englund.
Hebrew alphabet: The Hebrew alphabet, known variously by scholars as the Jewish script, square script, block script, and because of its place of origin, the Assyrian script (not to be confused with the Syriac alphabet) is the better-known of two script standards used to write the Hebrew language - the other being the Samaritan script. In adapted forms, is also used for writing other Jewish languages, most notably Yiddish, Ladino, and Judeo-Arabic. The Hebrew alphabet is written from right to left.
Hellenic Greece: Ancient Greece in the eighth through fourth centuries BC, between the Greek Dark Ages and the Hellenistic period, is referred to as Hellenic Greece. It is made up of two epochs: Archaic Greece (c.750-c.500) Classical Greece (c.500-c.300)
House of Pain: House of Pain are a famous Irish-American hip-hop group who released three albums in the early to mid 1990s before lead rapper Everlast decided to pursue his solo career again. The group is best known for its 1992 hit single "Jump Around", which reached #3 in the United States, #6 in Ireland and #8 in the United Kingdom.
Horror film: Horror films are movies that strive to elicit the emotions of fear, horror and terror from viewers. Their plots frequently involve themes of death, the supernatural or mental illness. Many horror movies also include a central villain. Early horror movies are largely based on classic literature of the gothic/horror genre, such as Dracula, Frankenstein, The Phantom of the Opera, and Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
Heredity: Heredity is the passing of traits to offspring (from its parent or ancestors). This is the process by which an offspring cell or organism acquires or becomes predisposed to the characteristics of its parent cell or organism. Through heredity, variations exhibited by individuals can accumulate and cause a species to evolve. The study of heredity in biology is called genetics, which includes the field of epigenetics.
List of historical drama films: The historical drama is a film genre in which stories are based upon historical events and famous persons. Some historical dramas attempt to accurately portray a historical event or biography, to the degree that the available historical research will allow.
Head of state: Head of state is the generic term for the individual or collective office that serves as the chief public representative of a monarchy, republic, federation, commonwealth or other kind of state. His or her role generally includes personifying the continuity and legitimacy of the state and exercising the political powers, functions and duties granted to the head of state in the country's constitution and laws.
Hebrew language: Hebrew is a Semitic language of the Afro-Asiatic language family. Culturally, it is considered a Jewish language. Hebrew in its modern form is spoken by many of the seven million people in Israel while Classical Hebrew has been used for prayer or study in Jewish communities around the world for over two thousand years. It is one of the official languages of Israel, along with Arabic.
Hypertext: Hypertext is text displayed on a computer or other electronic device with references to other text that the reader can immediately access, usually by a mouse click or keypress sequence. Apart from running text, hypertext may contain tables, images and other presentational devices. Hypertext is the underlying concept defining the structure of the World Wide Web, making it an easy-to-use and flexible format to share information over the Internet.
H. G. Wells: Herbert George Wells (21 September 1866 - 13 August 1946) was an English author, best known for his work in the science fiction genre. He was also a prolific writer in many genres, including contemporary novels, history, politics and social commentary. Together with Jules Verne, Wells has been referred to as "The Father of Science Fiction".
Harlan Ellison: Harlan Jay Ellison (born May 27, 1934) is an American writer. His principal genre is speculative fiction. His published works include over 1,000 short stories, novellas, screenplays, teleplays, essays, and a wide range of criticism covering not only literature, but film, television, and print media. His reputation as an editor and anthologist was cemented with his two ground-breaking science fiction anthologies, Dangerous Visions and Again, Dangerous Visions.
Hez rfen Ahmed elebi: Hezfen Ahmed lebi was a legendary Ottoman of 17th-century Istanbul, purported to have achieved sustained unpowered flight.
Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt: Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt (June 2, 1885 - December 30, 1964) was a German neuropathologist, who first described the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. He was born in Harburg upon Elbe and died in Munich.
Holmium: Holmium is a chemical element with the symbol Ho and atomic number 67. Part of the lanthanide series, holmium is a relatively soft and malleable silvery-white metallic element, which is stable in dry air at room temperature. A rare earth metal, it is found in the minerals monazite and gadolinite. Holmium has the highest magnetic strength of any element and therefore is used for the polepieces of the strongest static magnets.
Harald Tveit Alvestrand: Harald Tveit Alvestrand (born 29 June 1959) is a Norwegian computer scientist. He was the chairman of the Internet Engineering Task Force from 2001 until 2005. He is an author of several important RFCs, many in the general area of Internationalization and localization. He was born in Namsos, Norway, received his education from Bergen Katedralskole and the Norwegian Institute of Technology, and has worked for Norsk Data, UNINETT, EDB Maxware and Cisco Systems, Inc..
Hafnium: Hafnium is a chemical element with the symbol Hf and atomic number 72. A lustrous, silvery gray, tetravalent transition metal, hafnium chemically resembles zirconium and is found in zirconium minerals. Its existence was predicted by Dmitri Mendeleev in 1869. Hafnium was the penultimate stable isotope element to be discovered (rhenium was identified two years later).
Hedonism: Hedonism is a school of ethics which argues that pleasure is the only intrinsic good.
Hamburg: Hamburg is the second-largest city in Germany and the eleventh-largest city in the European Union. The city is home to approximately 1.8 million people, while the Hamburg Metropolitan Region has more than 4.3 million inhabitants. The port of Hamburg is the second-largest port in Europe, and the ninth largest in the world. Hamburg's official name is the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg .
Holocene: The Holocene is a geological epoch which began approximately 12,000 years ago. According to traditional geological thinking, the Holocene continues to the present. The word anthropocene is sometimes used to describe the time period from when humans have had a significant impact on the Earth's climate and ecosystems to the present. The Holocene is part of the Quaternary period. Its name comes from the Greek words (holos, whole or entire) and (kainos, new), meaning "entirely recent".
Harbor: A harbor or harbour, or haven, is a place where ships, boats, and barges can seek shelter from stormy weather, or else are stored for future use. Harbors can be man-made or natural. A man-made harbor has deliberately-constructed breakwaters, sea walls, or jettys, or otherwise, they could have been constructed by dredging, and these require maintenace by further periodic dredging.
H: H is the eighth letter in the basic modern Latin alphabet. Its name in both British and American English is aitch, plural aitches, though it is also pronounced /et/ in some dialects (see the discussion below).
High anxiety: High anxiety is a non-technical term referring to a state of extreme fear or apprehension.
HCI: HCI (with the last character being uppercase i not lowercase L) may refer to:
Horseshoe: A horseshoe is a U-shaped item made of metal or of modern synthetic materials, nailed or glued to the hooves of horses and some other draught animals. Like a shoe on a human, it is used to protect the animal's feet from wear and tear.
Hemoglobin: Haemoglobin (also spelled haemoglobin and abbreviated Hb or Hgb) is the iron-containing oxygen-transport metalloprotein in the red blood cells of vertebrates, and the tissues of some invertebrates. In mammals, the protein makes up about 97% of the red blood cell's dry content, and around 35% of the total content (including water). Haemoglobin transports oxygen from the lungs or gills to the rest of the body (i.e. the tissues) where it releases the oxygen for cell use.
Hippocrates: Hippocrates of Cos or Hippokrates of Kos (ca. 460 BC - ca. 370 BC) - Greek: ; Hippokrs was an ancient Greek physician of the Age of Pericles (Classical Athens), and is considered one of the most outstanding figures in the history of medicine. He is referred to as the Western father of medicine in recognition of his lasting contributions to the field as the founder of the Hippocratic School of medicine.
History of England: The history of England began with the arrival of humans thousands of years ago. What is now England, within the United Kingdom, was inhabited by Neanderthals 230,000 years ago. However, continuous human habitation dates to around 11,000 years ago, at the end of the last glacial period. The region has numerous remains from the Mesolithic, Neolithic, and Bronze Age, such as Stonehenge and Avebury.
Marrubium vulgare: Marrubium vulgare (White Horehound or Common Horehound) is a flowering plant in the family Lamiaceae, native to Europe, northern Africa and Asia. It is a gray-leaved herbaceous perennial plant, somewhat resembling mint in appearance, which grows to 25-45 cm tall. The leaves are 2-5 cm long with a densely crinkled surface, and are covered in downy hairs. The flowers are white, borne in clusters on the upper part of the main stem.
The History of Great Britain: The History of Great Britain is a history of the United Kingdom in six volumes written by David Hume begun in 1752 and published between 1754 and 1762.
Hyperthyroidism: Hyperthyroidism is the term for overactive tissue within the thyroid gland, resulting in overproduction and thus an excess of circulating free thyroid hormones: thyroxine (T4), triiodothyronine (T3), or both. Thyroid hormone is important at a cellular level, affecting nearly every type of tissue in the body. Thyroid hormone functions as a stimulus to metabolism and is critical to normal function of the cell.
Hermann G ring: Hermann Wilhelm Ging (also spelled Goering) (12 January 1893- 15 October 1946) was a German politician, military leader, and a leading member of the Nazi Party. Among many offices, he was Hitler's designated successor, and commander of the Luftwaffe (German Air Force). He was a veteran of the First World War as an ace fighter pilot, and a recipient of the coveted Pour le Mite ("The Blue Max").
Transclusion: In computer science, transclusion is the inclusion of a document or part of a document into another document by reference. For example, an article about a country might include a chart or a paragraph describing that country's agricultural exports from a different article about agriculture.
Typed link: A typed link in a hypertext system is a link to another document or part of a document that includes information about the character of the link.
Source tracking: Source tracking pertains to the ability of some hypertext systems to rigorously track the exact source of every document or partial document included in the system; that is, they remember who entered the information, when it was entered, when it was updated and by whom, and so on. This allows determining the exact history of every document (and even small parts of documents).
Historical materialism: Historical materialism is a methodological approach to the study of society, economics, and history, first articulated by Karl Marx. Marx himself never used the term but referred to his approach as "the materialist conception of history. " Historical materialism looks for the causes of developments and changes in human society in the means by which humans collectively produce the necessities of life. The non-economic features of a society (e.g.
H. P. Lovecraft: Howard Phillips Lovecraft (August 20, 1890 - March 15, 1937) was an American author of horror, fantasy, and science fiction, known then simply as weird fiction. Lovecraft's major inspiration and invention was cosmic horror, the idea that life is incomprehensible to human minds and that the universe is fundamentally alien. Those who genuinely reason, like his protagonists, gamble with sanity.
Huns: The Huns were a group of nomadic pastoral people who, appearing from beyond the Volga, migrated into Europe c. 370 AD and built up an enormous empire in Europe. Since De Guignes linked them with the Xiongnu who had been northern neighbours of China three hundred years before, considerable scholarly effort has been devoted in investigating such a connection. However, there is no evidence for a direct connection between the Xiongnu and the Huns.
Home Improvement TV series: Home Improvement is an American television sitcom starring Tim Allen, which aired 1991 to 1999. The show was created by Matt Williams, Carmen Finestra and David MacFadzean. In the 1990s, it was one of the most watched sitcoms, winning many awards. The series launched Tim Allen's acting career and also was the start of the television career of Pamela Anderson, who was part of the cast for the first two seasons.
List of Roman place names in Britain: A partial list of Roman place names in Great Britain. This list includes only names documented from Roman times. For a more complete list including later Latin names, see List of British places with Latin names. The early sources for Roman names show numerous variants and mis-spellings of the Latin names. Moreover one of the principal authorities, Ptolemy, wrote in Greek so names that he records need to be transliterated back into Latin to reveal the original form.
Roman Britain: Roman Britain was those parts of the island of Great Britain controlled by the Roman Empire between AD 43 and about 410. The Romans referred to their territory as Britannia, which eventually consisted of all of the island south of the shifting frontier with Caledonia.
Hemiparesis: Hemiparesis is weakness on one side of the body. Contrast with Hemiplegia, which is total paralysis of the arm, leg, and trunk on the same side of the body. Hemiparesis is generally caused by lesions of the corticospinal tract, which runs down from the cortical neurons of the frontal lobe to the motor neurons of the spinal cord (see the second paragraph of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis) and is responsible for the movements of the muscles of the body and its limbs.
Henri Bergson: Henri-Louis Bergson (18 October 1859-4 January 1941) was a French philosopher, influential especially in the first half of the 20th century. Bergson convinced many young people through his writing that immediate experience and intuition were as important as rational and scientific thinking for understanding reality.
Heart of Darkness: Heart of Darkness is a novel written by Joseph Conrad. Before its 1902 publication, it appeared as a three-part series (1899) in Blackwood's Magazine. It is widely regarded as a significant work of English literature and part of the Western canon. The story tells of when Marlow, an Englishman, took a foreign assignment from a Belgian trading company as a ferry-boat captain in Africa.
Hans Selye: Hans Hugo Bruno Selye, CC (January 26, 1907 October 16, 1982) was a Canadian endocrinologist of Austro-Hungarian origin and Hungarian ethnicity. Selye did much important factual work on the hypothetical non-specific response of the organism to stressors. While he did not recognize all of the many aspects of glucocorticoids, Selye was aware of this response on their role. Some commentators considered him the first to demonstrate the existence of biological stress.
Hacker computing: In computing, a hacker is a person in one of several distinct (but not completely disjoint) communities and subcultures: A community of enthusiast computer programmers and systems designers, originated in the 1960s around the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)'s Tech Model Railroad Club (TMRC) and MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. This community is notable for launching the free software movement. The World Wide Web and the Internet itself are also hacker artifacts.
Help desk: A help desk is an information and assistance resource that troubleshoots problems with computers or similar products. Corporations often provide help desk support to their customers via a toll-free number, website and/or e-mail. There are also in-house help desks geared toward providing the same kind of help for employees only. Some schools offer classes in which they perform similar tasks as a help desk.
Henry Fielding: Henry Fielding (22 April 1707 - 8 October 1754) was an English novelist and dramatist known for his rich earthy humour and satirical prowess, and as the author of the novel Tom Jones. Aside from his literary achievements, he has a significant place in the history of law-enforcement, having founded (with his half-brother John) what some have called London's first police force, the Bow Street Runners, using his authority as a magistrate.
Henry Bordeaux: Henri Bordeaux (January 25, 1870 in Thonon-les-Bains, Haute-Savoie - March 29, 1963) was a French writer and lawyer. Bordeaux came from a family of lawyers of Savoy. His grandfather was a magistrate and his father served on the Chambery bar. During his early life, he relocated between Savoy and Paris and the tensions between provincial and city life influenced his writings.
Hinduism: Hinduism is the predominant religious tradition of South Asia, especially in the Republic of India and in Nepal. Hinduism is often referred to as Santana Dharma by its adherents. Generic "types" of Hinduism that attempt to accommodate a variety of complex views span folk and Vedic Hinduism to bhakti tradition, as in Vaishnavism. Hinduism also includes yogic traditions and a wide spectrum of "daily morality" based on the notion of karma and societal norms such as Hindu marriage customs.
Hate crime: Hate crimes (also known as bias-motivated crimes) occur when a perpetrator targets a victim because of his or her perceived membership in a certain social group, usually defined by racial group, religion, sexual orientation, disability, class, ethnicity, nationality, age, gender, gender identity, or political affiliation. "Hate crime" generally refers to criminal acts which are seen to have been motivated by hatred of one or more of the listed conditions.
Hans Christian Andersen: Hans Christian Andersen (April 2, 1805 - August 4, 1875) was a Danish author and poet noted for his children's stories. These include "The Steadfast Tin Soldier", "The Snow Queen", "The Little Mermaid", "Thumbelina", "The Little Match Girl", and the "The Ugly Duckling". During his lifetime he was acclaimed for having delighted children worldwide, and was feted by royalty. His poetry and stories have been translated into more than 150 languages.
Hamlet: The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, or more simply Hamlet, is a tragedy by William Shakespeare, believed to have been written between 1599 and 1601. The play, set in Denmark, recounts how Prince Hamlet exacts revenge on his uncle Claudius, who has murdered Hamlet's father, the King, and then taken the throne and married Gertrude, Hamlet's mother.
History of Hungary: See also History of Europe, History of present-day nations and states, Pannonian basin before Hungary. Hungary is a state in central Europe, its history under this name dating to the early Middle Ages, when the region previously known as Pannonia was colonized by the Magyar nomad people from what is now central-northern Russia. For history of the area before this period, see Pannonian basin before Hungary.
High German languages: The High German languages (in German, Hochdeutsche Sprachen) or the High German dialects (Hochdeutsche Mundarten/Dialekte) are any of the varieties of standard German, Luxembourgish and Yiddish, as well as the local German dialects spoken in central and southern Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, Luxembourg and in neighbouring portions of Belgium, France, Italy, and Poland.
Homomorphism: In abstract algebra, a homomorphism is a structure-preserving map between two algebraic structures. The word homomorphism comes from the Greek language: (homos) meaning "same" and (morphe) meaning "shape".
Herman Brood: Hermanus "Herman" Brood was a Dutch musician, painter and media personality. Initially a musician who achieved artistic and commercial success in the 1970s and 1980s, and called "the Netherlands' greatest and only rock 'n' roll star," later in life he became a well-known painter.
Hannes Bok: Hannes Bok, pseudonym for Wayne Woodard (July 2, 1914-April 11, 1964), was an American artist and illustrator, as well as an amateur astrologer and writer of fantasy fiction and poetry. He painted nearly 150 covers for various science fiction, fantasy, and detective fiction magazines, as well as contributing hundreds of black and white interior illustrations.
Horror: Horror may refer to: the emotional states of horror and terror Horror (album), by Cannae Horror comics Horror comics in the United States, 1947-1954 Horror (With Blood Comes Cleansing album) Horror and terror, two techniques in Gothic literature and film Horror fiction Horror film Horror punk, a music genre The Horror, an album by RJD2 Survival horror, a video game genre
HyperCard: HyperCard is an application program created by Bill Atkinson for Apple Computer, Inc. that was among the first successful hypermedia systems before the World Wide Web. It combines database capabilities with a graphical, flexible, user-modifiable interface. HyperCard also features HyperTalk, written by Dan Winkler, a programming language for manipulating data and the user interface.
Hen Wlad Fy Nhadau: "Hen Wlad Fy Nhadau", usually translated as "Land of My Fathers", is, by tradition, the national anthem of Wales. The words were written by Evan James and the tune composed by his son, James James, both residents of Pontypridd, Glamorgan, in January 1856. The earliest written copy survives and is part of the collections of the National Library of Wales.
Histology: Histology is the study of the microscopic anatomy of cells and tissues of plants and animals. It is performed by examining a thin slice (section) of tissue under a light microscope or electron microscope. The ability to visualize or differentially identify microscopic structures is frequently enhanced through the use of histological stains. Histology is an essential tool of biology and medicine.
Historian: A historian is an individual who studies and writes about history, and is regarded as an authority on it. Historians are concerned with the continuous, methodical narrative and research of past events as relating to the human race; as well as the study of all events in time. If the individual is concerned with events preceding written history, the individual is a historian of prehistory.
Harthouse: Harthouse is a German record label specializing in techno music; during the early 1990s it was one of the biggest labels in the "techno-trance" scene that was the precursor to modern trance music. The label has been responsible for many success stories in the electronic world including Oliver Lieb, Eternal Basement, Hardfloor, Sven Vh and Koxbox. The company was founded by Sven Vh in the early 1990s.
Hermann Hesse: Hermann Hesse (July 2, 1877 - August 9, 1962) was a German-born Swiss poet, novelist, and painter. In 1946, he received the Nobel Prize in Literature. His best-known works include Steppenwolf, Siddhartha, and The Glass Bead Game (also known as Magister Ludi), each of which explores an individual's search for authenticity, self-knowledge and spirituality.
History of the Mediterranean region: The history of the Mediterranean region is the history of the interaction of the cultures and people of the lands surrounding the Mediterranean Sea the central superhighway of transport, trade and cultural exchange between diverse peoples. Its history is important to understanding the origin and development of the Mesopotamian, Egyptian, Persian, Phoenician, Jewish, Greek, Roman, Carthaginian, Arab and Turkish cultures.
Herodotus: Herodotus was an ancient Greek historian who lived in the 5th century BC (<abbr title="circa">c. </abbr>&thinsp;484 BC - c. &thinsp;425 BC). He is regarded as the "Father of History" in Western culture. He was the first historian known to collect his materials systematically, test their accuracy to a certain extent and arrange them in a well-constructed and vivid narrative.
Hugo de Garis: Hugo de Garis is a researcher in the sub-field of artificial intelligence (AI) known as evolvable hardware. He became known in the 1990s for his research on the use of genetic algorithms to evolve neural networks using three dimensional cellular automata inside field programmable gate arrays. He claimed that this approach would enable the creation of what he terms "artificial brains" which would quickly surpass human levels of intelligence.
HTTP Secure: Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) is a combination of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol with the SSL/TLS protocol to provide encryption and secure identification of the server. HTTPS connections are often used for payment transactions on the World Wide Web and for sensitive transactions in corporate information systems. HTTPS should not be confused with Secure HTTP (S-HTTP) specified in RFC 2660.
House: A house is generally a home, shelter, building or structure that is a dwelling or place for habitation by human beings. The term includes many kinds of dwellings ranging from rudimentary huts of nomadic tribes to free standing individual structures. In some contexts, "house" may mean the same as dwelling, residence, home, abode, lodging, accommodation, or housing, among other meanings. The social unit that lives in a house is known as a household.
Java applet: A Java applet is an applet delivered to the users in the form of Java bytecode. Java applets can run in a Web browser using a Java Virtual Machine (JVM), or in Sun's AppletViewer, a stand-alone tool for testing applets. Java applets were introduced in the first version of the Java language in 1995. Java applets are usually written in the Java programming language but they can also be written in other languages that compile to Java bytecode such as Jython, Ruby, or Eiffel.
Hebrew disambiguation: Hebrew may refer to: In linguistics: The Hebrew language Biblical Hebrew The Hebrew alphabet, used to write Hebrew and other Jewish languages Ethnic groups: Any descendant of Eber, the great great grandson of Noah (biblical) The Hebrews, an ancient people of the Levant region Children of Eber, the earliest cultural Hebrews The Israelites, descendants of Jacob, six generations removed from Eber. The Jews.
Huldrych Zwingli: Huldrych (or Ulrich) Zwingli (1 January 1484 - 11 October 1531) was a leader of the Reformation in Switzerland. Born during a time of emerging Swiss patriotism and increasing criticism of the Swiss mercenary system, he attended the University of Vienna and the University of Basel, a scholarly centre of humanism. He continued his studies while he served as a pastor in Glarus and later in Einsiedeln where he was influenced by the writings of Erasmus.
Homeschooling: Homeschooling or homeschool (also called home education or home learning) is the education of children at home, typically by parents but sometimes by tutors, rather than in other formal settings of public or private school. Although prior to the introduction of compulsory school attendance laws, most childhood education occurred within the family or community, homeschooling in the modern sense is an alternative in developed countries to formal education.
Hipparchus: Hipparchus or Hipparch was a Greek astronomer, geographer, and mathematician of the Hellenistic period. Hipparchus was born in Nicaea, and probably died on the island of Rhodes. He is known to have been a working astronomer at least from 147 to 127 BC. Hipparchus is considered the greatest ancient astronomical observer and, by some, the greatest overall astronomer of antiquity. He was the first whose quantitative and accurate models for the motion of the Sun and Moon survive.
London Heathrow Airport: London Heathrow Airport or Heathrow, located in the London Borough of Hillingdon, is the largest and busiest airport in the United Kingdom. It is the second busiest airport in the world in terms of total passenger traffic and it handles more international passengers than any other airport in the world. It is also the busiest airport in the European Union in terms of passenger traffic and the second busiest in terms of traffic movements, second to Paris CDG airport in Paris, France.
Half-life: Half-life is the period of time it takes for a substance undergoing decay to decrease by half. The name originally was used to describe a characteristic of unstable atoms, but may apply to any quantity which follows a set-rate decay. The original term, dating to 1907, was "half-life period", which was later shortened to "half-life" sometime in the early 1950s.
Heteroatom: In the nomenclature of organic chemistry, a heteroatom (from Ancient Greek heteros, different, + atomos) is any atom that is not carbon or hydrogen. It is typically, but not exclusively, nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur, phosphorus, boron, chlorine, bromine, or iodine. In the description of protein structure, particularly in the now-deprecated Protein Data Bank file format, a heteroatom record (HETATM) describes an atom belonging to a small molecule cofactor rather than to part of a biopolymer chain.
Humus: Humus is degraded organic material in soil, which causes some soil layers to be dark brown or black. In soil science, humus refers to any organic matter that has reached a point of stability, where it will break down no further and might, if conditions do not change, remain essentially as it is for centuries, if not millennia. In agriculture, humus is sometimes also used to describe mature compost, or natural compost extracted from a forest or other spontaneous source for use to amend soil.
Hydrogen bond: A hydrogen bond is the attractive interaction of a hydrogen atom with an electronegative atom, like nitrogen, oxygen or fluorine (thus the name "hydrogen bond", which must not be confused with a covalent bond to hydrogen). The hydrogen must be covalently bonded to another electronegative atom to create the bond. These bonds can occur between molecules (intermolecularly), or within different parts of a single molecule (intramolecularly).
Heretic video game: Heretic is a fantasy first-person shooter video game created by Raven Software, published by id Software, and distributed by GT Interactive in 1994. Using a modified id Tech 1, Heretic was one of the first first-person games to feature inventory manipulation and the ability to look up and down. It also introduced multiple gib objects spawned when a character suffered a death by extreme force or heat. Previously, the character would simply crumple into a heap.
Hexen: Hexen: Beyond Heretic, released as simply Hexen for some ports, is a first-person shooter video game developed by Raven Software, published by id Software, and distributed by GT Interactive beginning on March 16, 1996. It is the sequel to 1994's Heretic, and the second game in the Serpent Riders series. The word Hexen is German for "witches". The game received mostly very positive reviews in computer gaming magazines.
Heraldry: Heraldry is the profession, study, or art of devising, granting, and blazoning arms and ruling on questions of rank or protocol, as exercised by an officer of arms. Heraldry comes from Anglo-Norman herald, from the Germanic compound *harja-waldaz, "army commander". The word, in its most general sense, encompasses all matters relating to the duties and responsibilities of officers of arms.
Hexen II: Hexen II was a first-person shooter computer game developed by Raven Software from 1996 to 1997, published by id Software and distributed by Activision. It was the third game in the Hexen/Heretic series, and the last in the Serpent Riders trilogy. Using a modified Quake engine, it featured single player and multi player game modes, as well as four character classes to choose from, each with different abilities.
Howard Carter: Howard Carter (9 May 1874 - 2 March 1939) was an English archaeologist and Egyptologist, noted as a primary discoverer of the tomb of Tutankhamun. In 1891, at the age of 17, Carter, a talented young artist, was sent out to Egypt by the Egypt Exploration Fund to assist Percy Newberry in the excavation and recording of Middle Kingdom tombs at Beni Hassan. Even at that young age he was innovative in improving the methods of copying tomb decoration.
Heretic II: Heretic II is a fantasy action-adventure game developed by Raven Software and published by Activision in 1998 continuing the story of Corvus, the main character from its predecessor, Heretic. Using a modified id Tech 2 engine, the game features a mix of a third-person camera with a first-person shooter's action, making for a new gaming experience at the time.
Hardware: Hardware is a general term for the physical artifacts of a technology. It may also mean the physical components of a computer system, in the form of computer hardware. Hardware historically meant the metal parts and fittings that were used to make wooden products stronger, more functional, longer lasting and easier to fabricate or assemble.
History of Scotland: The history of Scotland begins around 14,000 years ago, when humans first began to inhabit what is now Scotland after the end of the Devensian glaciation, the last ice age. Of the Stone Age, Bronze Age, and Iron Age civilization that existed in the territory, many artifacts remain, but few written records were left behind.
Herman Melville: Herman Melville (August 1, 1819 - September 28, 1891) was an American novelist, short story writer, essayist and poet, whose work is often classified as part of the genre of dark romanticism. He is best known for his novel Moby-Dick and novella Billy Budd, the latter of which was published posthumously.
Hadrian: Publius Aelius Hadrianus (as emperor Imperator Caesar Divi Traiani filius Traianus Hadrianus Augustus, and Divus Hadrianus after his apotheosis, known as Hadrian in English; 24 January 76 - 10 July 138) was the fourteenth emperor of Rome from AD 117 to 138, as well as a Stoic and Epicurean philosopher. A member of the gens Aelia, Hadrian was the third of the so-called Five Good Emperors.
High fidelity: High fidelityor hi-fireproduction is a term used by home stereo listeners and home audio enthusiasts to refer to high-quality reproduction of sound or images that are very faithful to the original performance. Ideally, high-fidelity equipment has minimal amounts of noise and distortion and an accurate frequency response as set out in 1973 by the German Deutsches Institut fr Normung (DIN) standard DIN 45500.
Holden: GM Holden Ltd is a U.S. -owned automaker based in Port Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. The company was founded in 1856 as a saddlery business, but later moved into the automotive field, becoming a subsidiary of General Motors (GM) in 1931. Holden has taken charge of vehicle operations for GM in Australasia and, on behalf of GM, holds partial ownership of GM Daewoo in South Korea. Over the years, Holden has offered a broad range of locally produced vehicles, supplemented by imported GM models.
Hypnos: In Greek mythology, Hypnos (, "sleep") was the personification of sleep; the Roman equivalent was known as Somnus. His twin was Thatos ("death"); their mother was the goddess Nyx ("night"). His palace was a dark cave where the sun never shines. At the entrance were a number of poppies and other hypnogogic plants. Hypnos's three sons or brothers represented things that occur in dreams. Morpheus, Phobetor and Phantasos appear in the dreams of kings.
Heinrich Schliemann: Heinrich Schliemann (was a German businessman and archaeologist, and an advocate of the historical reality of places mentioned in the works of Homer. Schliemann was an important archaeological excavator of Troy, along with the Mycenaean sites Mycenae and Tiryns. His successes lent material weight to the idea that Homer's Iliad and Virgil's Aeneid reflect actual historical events.
Hank Greenberg: Henry Benjamin "Hank" Greenberg (January 1, 1911-September 4, 1986), nicknamed "Hammerin' Hank," was an American professional baseball player in the 1930s and 1940s. A first baseman primarily for the Detroit Tigers, Greenberg was one of the premier power hitters of his generation. He hit 58 home runs in 1938, equalling Jimmie Foxx's 1932 mark for the most home runs in one season by any player between 1927 (when Babe Ruth set a record of 60) and 1961 (when Roger Maris surpassed it).
Haskell programming language: Haskell is a standardized, general-purpose purely functional programming language, with non-strict semantics and strong static typing. It is named after logician Haskell Curry. In Haskell, "a function is a first-class citizen" of the programming language.
Hugo Gernsback: Hugo Gernsback (August 16, 1884 - August 19, 1967), born Hugo Gernsbacher, was a Luxembourg American inventor, writer and magazine publisher, best remembered for publications that included the first science fiction magazine. His contributions to the genre as publisher were so significant that, along with H.G. Wells and Jules Verne, he is sometimes popularly called "The Father of Science Fiction"; in his honor, the annual Science Fiction Achievement awards are named the "Hugos.
Holy Orders: The term Holy Orders is used by many Christian churches to refer to ordination or to a group of individuals who are set apart for a special role or ministry.
Hunt-the-pixel: Hunt-the-pixel (also pixel hunt) is a term used to describe some computer game interfaces involving point and click with a mouse. The term is usually applied to adventure games in which the primary difficulty with some portion of the game lies in finding an object on the screen. In some cases, the required object is quite small, and may be only a few pixels in size. The player may not have any idea what to look for, but often the game cannot progress without finding it.
Homer: Homer is a legendary ancient Greek epic poet, traditionally said to be the author of the epic poems the Iliad and the Odyssey. The ancient Greeks generally believed that Homer was an historical individual, but modern scholars are skeptical: no reliable biographical information has been handed down from classical antiquity, and the poems themselves manifestly represent the culmination of many centuries of oral story-telling and a well-developed "formulaic" system of poetic composition.
Hausdorff space: In topology and related branches of mathematics, a Hausdorff space, separated space or T2 space is a topological space in which distinct points have disjoint neighbourhoods. Of the many separation axioms that can be imposed on a topological space, the "Hausdorff condition" (T2) is the most frequently used and discussed. It implies the uniqueness of limits of sequences, nets, and filters.
Hawkwind: Hawkwind are an English rock band, one of the earliest space rock groups. Their lyrics favour urban and science fiction themes. They are also a noted precursor to punk rock and now are considered a link between the hippie and punk cultures. Formed in November 1969 by singer/songwriter/guitarist Dave Brock, Hawkwind have gone through many incarnations and styles of music.
History of computing hardware: The history of computing hardware is the record of the constant drive to make computer hardware faster, cheaper, and store more data. Before the development of the general-purpose computer, most calculations were done by humans. Tools to help humans calculate are generally called calculators.
Hermann Ebbinghaus: Hermann Ebbinghaus (January 24, 1850 February 26, 1909) was a German psychologist who pioneered the experimental study of memory, and is known for his discovery of the forgetting curve and the spacing effect. He was also the first person to describe the learning curve. He was the father of the eminent Neo-Kantian philosopher Julius Ebbinghaus.
Standard Hindi: Standard Hindi, also known as Manak Hindi, High Hindi, Nagari Hindi or Literary Hindi is a standardised register of Hindi. It is one of the 22 languages with official status in India, and is used, along with English, for administration of the central government. Standard Hindi is a sanskritised register derived from the khariboli dialect.
Home internet Solution: Home internet Solution (HiS) is a DSL technology for Internet access developed by the Swedish telephone company Ericsson.
Horse: The horse (Equus ferus caballus) is a hooved mammal, a subspecies of the family Equidae. The horse has evolved over the past 45 to 55 million years from a small multi-toed creature into the large, single-toed animal of today. Humans began to domesticate horses around 4000 BCE, and their domestication is believed to have been widespread by 3000 BCE.
Heat engine: A heat engine is a physical device that converts thermal energy to mechanical output. The mechanical output is called work, and the thermal energy input is called heat. Heat engines typically run on a specific thermodynamic cycle. Heat engines can be open to the atmospheric air or sealed and closed off to the outside (open or closed cycle).
Huginn and Muninn: In Norse mythology, Huginn and Muninn (from Old Norse munr "memory" or "mind") are a pair of ravens that fly all over the world, Midgard, and bring the god Odin information. Huginn and Muninn are attested in the Poetic Edda, compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources; the Prose Edda and Heimskringla, written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson; in the Third Grammatical Treatise, compiled in the 13th century by r rson; and in the poetry of skalds.
Heimdall: Heimdall (Old Norse Heimdallr, the prefix Heim- means home, the affix -dallr is of uncertain origin) is one of the ir (gods) in Norse mythology, called the "whitest of the gods". Heimdall is the guardian of the gods and of the link between Midgard and Asgard, the Bifrost Bridge. Legends foretell that he will sound the Gjallarhorn, alerting the ir to the onset of Ragnar where the world ends and is reborn.
House of Lords: The House of Lords (also known as House of Peers for ceremonial purposes) is the upper house, but the Second chamber, of the Parliament of the United Kingdom and is also commonly referred to as "the Lords". Parliament comprises the Sovereign, the House of Commons (which is the lower house of Parliament and referred to as "the Commons"), and the Lords.
Hvergelmir: Hvergelmir (Old Norse "bubbling boiling spring") is the wellspring of cold in Niflheim in Norse mythology. All cold rivers are said to come from here, and it was said to be the source of the eleven rivers, ivar. Above the spring, the serpent Ngr gnaws on one of the roots of the world Yggdrasil.
Hausdorff maximal principle: In mathematics, the Hausdorff maximal principle is an alternate and earlier formulation of Zorn's lemma proved by Felix Hausdorff in 1914 . It states that in any partially ordered set, every totally ordered subset is contained in a maximal totally ordered subset. The Hausdorff maximal principle is one of many statements equivalent to the axiom of choice over Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory. The principle is also called the Hausdorff maximality theorem or the Kuratowski lemma .
Homeomorphism: Topological equivalence redirects here; see also topological equivalence (dynamical systems). In the mathematical field of topology, a homeomorphism or topological isomorphism or bicontinuous function (from the Greek words ' = similar and ' = shape, form) is a continuous function between two topological spaces that has a continuous inverse function.
Hans-Dietrich Genscher: Hans-Dietrich Genscher (born March 21, 1927) is a German politician of the liberal Free Democratic Party (FDP). He served as Foreign Minister and Vice Chancellor of Germany from 1974 to 1982 and, after a two-week pause, from 1982 to 1992, making him Germany's longest serving Foreign Minister and Vice Chancellor. In 1991, he was Chairman of the OSCE.
Hel being: In Norse mythology, Hel is a being that presides over a realm of the same name, where she receives a portion of the dead. Hel is attested in the Poetic Edda, compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and the Prose Edda, written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson. In addition, mentioned in poems recorded in Heimskringla and Egils saga that date from the 9th and 10th century respectively.
Henry Ainsworth: Henry Ainsworth, (1571 - 1622) was an English Nonconformist clergyman and scholar.
Hawar Islands: The Hawar Islands are a group of islands situated off the west coast of Qatar in the Gulf of Bahrain of the Persian Gulf. Despite their proximity to Qatar (Suwd al Janbyah is only 1.4 km from the Qatari mainland at the peninsula of Ras Abruq, while Rubud Al Gharbiyah, the island closest to the main island of Bahrain, lies at a distance of 19.7 km to it), the islands belong to Bahrain but were the subject of a dispute between Bahrain and Qatar.
Hakka cuisine: Hakka cuisine is the cooking style of the Hakka people, who are primarily found in southeastern China, but also may be found in many other parts of China, as well as in the Chinese diaspora. Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore have numerous restaurants serving Hakka cuisine
Hernando de Alarc n: Hernando de Alarc, a Spanish navigator of the 16th century, noted for having led an early expedition to the peninsula of Baja California, meant to be coordinated with Francisco Vasqu de Coronado's overland expedition, and for penetrating the lower Colorado River, perhaps as far as the modern California-Arizona boundary. Little is known about Alarc's life outside of his expedition in New Spain.
Hyperinflation: In economics, hyperinflation is inflation that is very high or "out of control", a condition in which prices increase rapidly as a currency loses its value. Definitions used by the media vary from a cumulative inflation rate over three years approaching 100% to "inflation exceeding 50% a month. " In informal usage the term is often applied to much lower rates.
Hunan cuisine: Hunan cuisine, sometimes called Xiang cuisine, consists of the cuisines of the Xiang River region, Dongting Lake and western Hunan Province, in China. Hunan cuisine consists of three styles: Hunan cuisine is one of the eight regional cuisines of China and is well known for its hot spicy flavor, fresh aroma and deep color. Common cooking techniques include stewing, frying, pot-roasting, braising, and smoking.
Herbert Hoover: Herbert Clark Hoover (August 10, 1874 - October 20, 1964) was the 31st President of the United States (1929-1933). Hoover was a professional mining engineer and author. As the United States Secretary of Commerce in the 1920s under Presidents Warren Harding and Calvin Coolidge, he promoted government intervention under the rubric "economic modernization". In the presidential election of 1928, Hoover easily won the Republican nomination, despite having no previous elected office experience.
Hindu: A Hindu is an adherent of Hinduism, a set of religious, philosophical and cultural systems that originated in the Indian subcontinent. The vast body of Hindu scriptures, divided into ruti ("revealed") and Smriti ("remembered"), lay the foundation of Hindu beliefs, which primarily include dhma, kma, ahimsa and sasra. Vednta and yoga are one of the several core schools of Hindu philosophy, broadly known as the Sanatan Dharm.
The Hound of Heaven: The Hound of Heaven is a 182 line religious poem written by English poet Francis Thompson. The poem became famous and was the source of much of Thompson's posthumous reputation. The poem was first published in Thompson's first volume of poems in 1893. It was included in the Oxford Book of English Mystical Verse (1917). It was also an influence on J. R. R. Tolkien, who read it a few years before that.
History of the Internet: Before the wide spread of internetworking (802.1) that led to the Internet, most communication networks were limited by their nature to only allow communications between the stations on the local network and the prevalent computer networking method was based on the central mainframe computer model.
Hildegard of Bingen: Blessed Hildegard of Bingen, also known as Saint Hildegard, and Sybil of the Rhine, was a Christian mystic, German Benedictine abbess, author, counselor, linguist, naturalist, scientist, philosopher, physician, herbalist, poet, channeller, visionary, composer, and polymath. Elected a ' by her fellow nuns in 1136, she founded the monasteries of Rupertsberg in 1150 and Eibingen in 1165. She was a composer with an extant biography from her own time.
Hilversum: Hilversum is a municipality and a town in the Netherlands, in the province of North Holland. Located in the region called "'t Gooi", it is the largest town in that area. It is surrounded by heathland, woods, meadows, lakes, and smaller villages. Hilversum is part of the Randstad, one of the largest conurbations in Europe.
Horace: Quintus Horatius Flaccus, (Venusia, December 8, 65 BC - Rome, November 27, 8 BC), known in the English-speaking world as Horace, was the leading Roman lyric poet during the time of Augustus.
History of Microsoft Windows: In 1983 Microsoft announced the development of Windows, a graphical user interface (GUI) for its own operating system, which had shipped for IBM PC and compatible computers since 1981. The product line has changed from a GUI product to a modern operating system over two families of design, each with their own codebase and default file system. The 3. x and 4. x family includes DOS, Windows 95, Windows 98 and Windows ME.
Hobart: Hobart is the state capital and most populous city of the Australian island state of Tasmania. Founded in 1803 as a penal colony, Hobart is Australia's second oldest capital city after Sydney. In 2008, the city had a greater area population of approximately 219,287. A Resident of Hobart is known as a "Hobartian". The city is the financial and administrative heart of Tasmania, and also serves as the home port for both Australian and French Antarctic operations.
Hunter Scott: Hunter Alan Scott (born June 9, 1985) is best known for the research he did regarding the USS Indianapolis. He studied economics and physics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on a Naval ROTC scholarship, and graduated in May 2007. Scott is originally from Pensacola, Florida and is an alumnus of Pensacola High School. When he was age 12, he had to do a National History Day project. He chose the subject of the USS Indianapolis because it came up in the film Jaws.
Hesiod: Hesiod was a Greek oral poet and is often identified as the first economist. His date is uncertain but leading scholars, favor the the eighth century BC for when Hesiod lived. Since at least Herodotus's time (Histories, 2.53), Hesiod and Homer have generally been considered the earliest Greek poets whose work has survived, and they are often paired.
Hebrew numerals: The system of Hebrew numerals is a quasi-decimal alphabetic numeral system using the letters of the Hebrew alphabet. In this system, there is no notation for zero, and the numeric values for individual letters are added together. Each unit (1, 2, ... , 9) is assigned a separate letter, each tens (10, 20, ... , 90) a separate letter, and the first four hundreds (100, 200, 300, 400) a separate letter.
Hill system: The Hill system (or Hill notation) is a system of writing chemical formulas such that the number of carbon atoms in a molecule is indicated first, the number of hydrogen atoms next, and then the number of all other chemical elements subsequently, in alphabetical order. When the formula contains no carbon, all the elements, including hydrogen, are listed alphabetically.
Hydroxy: Hydroxy can refer to: In chemical nomenclature, the prefix "hydroxy-" shows the presence of a hydroxyl functional group (-OH) An abbreviation for the medication hydroxyzine, which is commonly sold under the brand names Atarax, Ucerax, Serecid, and Vistaril Hydroxy gas: A nickname for oxyhydrogen, a combination of hydrogen and oxygen gas produced from the electrolysis of water
Hero: A hero (heroine in female), in Greek mythology and folklore, was originally a demigod, their cult being one of the most distinctive features of ancient Greek religion.
Hydroxide: In chemistry, hydroxide is the name for the diatomic anion OH, consisting of covalently bonded oxygen and hydrogen atoms, usually derived from the dissociation of a base. It is one of the simplest and most pervasive diatomic ions known. Inorganic compounds that contain the hydroxyl group are referred to as hydroxides. Alkali metal (Li, Na, K) and alkaline earth (Mg, Ca, Ba) salts containing hydroxide are common bases.
H. R. Giger: Hans Rudolf "Ruedi" Giger is a Swiss surrealist painter, sculptor, and set designer, who won an Academy Award for Best Achievement for Visual Effects for his design work on the film Alien.
Helsinki: Helsinki is the capital and largest city in Finland. It is in the southern part of Finland, on the shore of the Gulf of Finland, by the Baltic Sea. The population of the city of Helsinki is 583,484 (31 December 2009), making it the most populous municipality in Finland by a wide margin. Helsinki is located some 400 kilometers east of Stockholm, Sweden, 300 kilometers west of St. Petersburg, Russia and 80 kilometers north of Tallinn, Estonia.
Halle Berry: Halle Berry (born August 14, 1966) is an American actress, former fashion model, and beauty queen. Berry received an Emmy, Golden Globe, SAG, and an NAACP Image award for Introducing Dorothy Dandridge and won an Academy Award for Best Actress and was also nominated for a BAFTA Award in 2001 for her performance in Monster's Ball, becoming the first and, as of 2009, only woman of African American descent to have won the award for Best Actress.
Hispaniola: Hispaniola (from Spanish La Espala) is a major island in the Caribbean, containing the two sovereign states of Haiti and the Dominican Republic. The island is located between the islands of Cuba to the west, and Puerto Rico to the east, directly within the hurricane belt. Hispaniola is perhaps most famous as the site of the first European colonies in the New World, colonies founded by Christopher Columbus on his voyages in 1492 and 1493.
Higher criticism: Historical criticism or higher criticism is a branch of literary analysis that investigates the origins of a text: as applied in biblical studies it investigates the books of the Bible and compares them to other texts written at the same time, before, or recently after the text in question.
Robert Koch: Heinrich Herman Robert Koch (11 December 1843 - 27 May 1910) was a German physician. He became famous for isolating Bacillus anthracis (1877), the Tuberculosis bacillus (1882) and the Vibrio cholera (1883) and for his development of Koch's postulates. He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his tuberculosis findings in 1905. He is considered one of the founders of microbiologyhe inspired such major figures as Paul Ehrlich and Gerhard Domagk.
Huallaga: Huallaga may refer to: Locations in Peru: Huallaga Province Huallaga River Huallaga Valley
Team handball: Handball (also known as team handball, Olympic handball or European handball) is a team sport in which two teams of seven players each (six outfield players and a goalkeeper) pass a ball to throw it into the goal of the other team. The team with the most goals after two periods of 30 minutes wins. Modern handball is usually played indoors, but outdoors variants exist in the form of field handball (which was more common in the past) and beach handball.
Hilbert's basis theorem: In mathematics, Hilbert's basis theorem states that every ideal in the ring of multivariate polynomials over a field is finitely generated. This can be translated into algebraic geometry as follows: every algebraic set over a field can be described as the set of common roots of finitely many polynomial equations. The theorem is named for the German mathematician David Hilbert who first proved it in 1888.
Heterocyclic compound: Heterocyclic compounds are organic compounds containing at least one atom of carbon, and at least one element other than carbon, such as sulfur, oxygen or nitrogen within a ring structure. These structures may comprise either simple aromatic rings or non-aromatic rings. Some examples are pyridine (C5H5N), pyrimidine (C4H4N2) and dioxane (C4H8O2).
Harry Connick Jr.: Harry Connick, Jr. (born Joseph Harry Fowler Connick, Jr. ; September 11, 1967) is an American singer, actor, composer, and pianist. Connick has sold over 25 million albums worldwide. He is ranked among the top 60 best-selling male artists in the United States by the Recording Industry Association of America, with 16 million certified albums. He has seven top-20 U.S. albums, and ten number-one U.S. jazz albums, earning more number-one albums than any other artist in the US jazz chart history.
Honda: Honda Motor Company, Ltd. listen is a Japanese multinational corporation primarily known as a manufacturer of automobiles and motorcycles. Honda is the world's largest manufacturer of motorcycles as well as the world's largest manufacturer of internal combustion engines measured by volume, producing more than 14 million internal combustion engines each year. Honda surpassed Nissan in 2001 to become the second-largest Japanese automobile manufacturer.
Hydrostatic shock: Hydrostatic shock is the injury caused by the pressure wave resulting from high-speed impact, as from a bullet. A potential component of terminal ballistics, hydrostatic shock can produce remote wounding and incapacitating effects in living targets, in addition to local effects in tissue caused by direct impact, through a hydraulic effect in liquid-filled tissues.
Hadith: Hadith (pl. aadth; lit. "narrative") are narrations originating from the words and deeds of the Islamic prophet Mohammad. Hadith are regarded by traditional schools of jurisprudence as important tools for understanding the Qur'an and in matters of jurisprudence. Hadith were evaluated and gathered into large collections mostly during the reign of Umar bin Abdul Aziz during the 8th and 9th centuries. These works are referred to in matters of Islamic law and history to this day.
Hull watercraft: A hull is the watertight body of a ship or boat. Above the hull is the superstructure and/or deckhouse, where present. The line where the hull meets the water surface is called the waterline. The structure of the hull varies depending on the vessel type.
Hymn: A hymn is a type of song, usually religious, specifically written for the purpose of praise, adoration or prayer, and typically addressed to a deity or deities, or to a prominent figure or personification. The word hymn derives from Greek (hymnos), "a song of praise". Collections of hymns are known as hymnals or hymnbooks.
History of physics: As forms of science historically developed out of philosophy, physics was originally referred to as natural philosophy, a term describing a field of study concerned with "the workings of nature".
Hydrofoil: A hydrofoil is a wing-like structure mounted on struts below the hull of a boat, which lifts the boat partially out of the water during forward motion, in order to reduce drag. Colloquially, the term "hydrofoil" is often used to refer to any boat that utilizes hydrofoil technology. Hydrofoils are similar in appearance and purpose to airfoils. As the craft increases its speed, the hydrofoils develop enough lift to raise the hull up and out of the water.
List of humorists: A humorist is a person who writes or performs humorous material. The material written and/or performed by humorists tends to be more subtle and cerebral than the material created by stand-up comedians and comedy writers. The intention is often to provoke wry smiles and amusement rather than outright belly laughs.
Henri Chopin: Henri Chopin (June 18, 1922 - January 3, 2008) was an avant-garde poet and musician. Henri Chopin was a little-known but key figure of the French avant-garde during the second half of the 20th century. Known primarily as a concrete and sound poet, he created a large body of pioneering recordings using early tape recorders, studio technologies and the sounds of the manipulated human voice.
Hydra genus: Hydra is a genus of simple freshwater animal possessing radial symmetry. Hydras are predatory animals belonging to the phylum Cnidaria and the class Hydrozoa. They can be found in most unpolluted freshwater ponds, lakes and streams in the temperate and tropical regions by gently sweeping a collecting net through weedy areas. They are usually a few millimeters long and are best studied with a microscope.
Henry Kissinger: Henry Alfred Kissinger (born May 27, 1923) pronounced /sndr/, is a German-born American political scientist, diplomat, and recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize. He served as National Security Advisor and later concurrently as Secretary of State in the administrations of Presidents Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford. After his term, his opinion was still sought out by many following presidents.
Hydrus: Hydrus is a small constellation in the southern sky, created in the sixteenth century. Its name means "male water snake", and it should not be confused with Hydra, a much larger constellation which represents a female water snake.
Hercules: Hercules is the Roman name for the mythical Greek demigod Heracles, son of Zeus, the Roman Jupiter, and the mortal Alcmene. Early Roman sources suggest that the imported Greek hero supplanted a mythic Italic shepherd called "Recaranus" or "Garanus", famous for his strength, who dedicated the Ara Maxima that became associated with the earliest Roman cult of Hercules.
Hassium: Hassium is a synthetic element with the symbol Hs and atomic number 108 and is the heaviest member of the group 8 (VIII) elements. The element was first observed in 1984. Several isotopes are known with Hs being the longest-lived with a half-life of ~10 s. There is also tentative evidence for an isotope Hs with a measured half-life of ~16.5 minutes, which would make it one of the longest-lived superheavy nuclides.
Hellenistic civilization: Hellenistic civilization represents the zenith of Greek influence in the ancient world from 323 BC to about 146 BC (or arguably as late as 30 BC); note, however that Koine Greek language and Hellenistic philosophy and religion are also indisputably elements of the Roman era until Late Antiquity.
Hogshead: A hogshead is a large cask of liquid (or, less often, of a food commodity). More specifically, it refers to a specified volume, measured in either Imperial units or U.S. customary units, primarily applied to alcoholic beverages such as wine, ale, or cider. A tobacco hogshead was used in American colonial times to transport and store tobacco. It was a very large wooden barrel.
History of Poland: The history of Poland as a state spans well over a millennium, but humans have lived in the glaciation disrupted environment of north Central Europe for many thousand years. In prehistoric and protohistoric times the area of present-day Poland went through the Stone Age, Bronze Age and Iron Age stages of development, along with the nearby regions. Settled agricultural people have lived there for the past 7500 years, since their first arrival at the outset of the Neolithic period.
Hrad any: ', the Castle District, is the district of the city of Prague, Czech Republic, surrounding the Prague Castle. The castle is said to be the biggest castle in the world at about 570 meters in length and an average of about 130 meters wide. Its history stretches back to the 9th century. St Vitus Cathedral is located in the castle area. Most of the district consists of noble historical . But there are also many other attractions for visitors: romantic nooks, peaceful places and beautiful lookouts.
Head disambiguation: In anatomy, the head of an animal is a body part that usually comprises the brain, eyes, ears, nose, and mouth. Head may also refer to:
Hard disk drive: A hard disk drive (often shortened as hard disk, hard drive, or HDD) is a non-volatile storage device that stores digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating rigid (i.e. hard) platters with magnetic surfaces. Strictly speaking, "drive" refers to the motorized mechanical aspect that is distinct from its medium, such as a tape drive and its tape, or a floppy disk drive and its floppy disk.
Houston: Houston is the fourth-largest city in the United States and the largest city in the state of Texas. As of the 2008 U.S. Census estimate, the city had a population of 2.2 million within an area of 600 square miles (1,600 km). Houston is the seat of Harris County and the economic center of the Houston-Sugar Land-Baytown metropolitan areathe sixth-largest metropolitan area in the U.S. with a population over 5.7 million.
Hebrew calendar: The Hebrew calendar or Jewish calendar is a lunisolar calendar used by Jews. Today, the calendar is predominantly used for religious observances and by all official institutions in the State of Israel, and by Jewish farmers in Israel as an agricultural framework.
Herbert Marcuse: Herbert Marcuse (July 19, 1898 - July 29, 1979) was a German philosopher, sociologist, and political theorist, associated with the Frankfurt School of critical theory. Celebrated as the "Father of the New Left," his best known works are Eros and Civilization, One-Dimensional Man and The Aesthetic Dimension.
The Holocaust Industry: The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering is a book published in 2000 by Norman G. Finkelstein, that argues that the American Jewish establishment exploits the memory of the Nazi Holocaust for political and financial gain, as well as to further the interests of Israel. According to Finkelstein, this "Holocaust industry" has corrupted Jewish culture and the authentic memory of the Holocaust.
Hash function: A hash function is any well-defined procedure or mathematical function that converts a large, possibly variable-sized amount of data into a small datum, usually a single integer that may serve as an index to an array. The values returned by a hash function are called hash values, hash codes, hash sums, or simply hashes.
Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn: The Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn (or, more commonly, the Golden Dawn) was a magical order active in Great Britain during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, which practiced theurgy and spiritual development. It has been one of the largest single influences on 20th-century Western occultism. Concepts of magic and ritual at the center of contemporary traditions, such as Wicca and Thelema, were inspired by the Golden Dawn.
Heraclitus: Heraclitus of Ephesus was a pre-Socratic Greek philosopher, a native of Ephesus, Ionia, on the coast of Asia Minor. He was of distinguished parentage. Little is known about his early life and education, but he regarded himself as self-taught and a pioneer of wisdom. From the lonely life he led, and still more from the riddling nature of his philosophy and his contempt for humankind in general, he was called "The Obscure," and the "Weeping Philosopher.
Hilaire Rouelle: Hilaire Marin Rouelle (1718-1779) was a French chemist. In 1773, he discovered urea. He is known as "le cadet" (the younger) to distinguish him from his older brother, Guillaume-Franis Rouelle, who was also a chemist.
Harrison Schmitt: Harrison Hagan "Jack" Schmitt (born July 3, 1935) is an American geologist, a former NASA astronaut, University Professor and a U.S. Senator for one term. He is the twelfth and last of the Apollo astronauts to arrive and set foot on the Moon. However, as Schmitt re-entered the module first, Cernan became the last astronaut to walk on and depart the moon.
High jump: The high jump is a track and field athletics event in which competitors must jump over a horizontal bar placed at measured heights without the aid of certain devices in its modern most practiced format; auxiliary weights and mounds have been used for assistance; rules have changed over the years. It has been contested since the Olympic Games of ancient Greece. Over the centuries since, competitors have introduced increasingly more effective techniques to arrive at the current form.
Halon: Halon can refer to: Haloalkane, or halogenoalkane, a group of chemical compounds consisting of alkanes with linked halogens. In particular, bromine-containing haloalkanes. Halomethane fire extinguishing systems Various compounds that have been used in agriculture, dry cleaning, fire suppression, and other applications.
History of the Southern Levant: The Levant is defined as the geographical region bordering the Mediterranean, roughly between Egypt and Anatolia (modern Turkey). The southern Levant is therefore roughly the same area as that occupied by the modern states of Israel (including the West Bank and the Gaza Strip) and Jordan. These terms are used by archaeologists, to avoid taking a modern geo-political stance in a region rife with border disputes.
Hammer: A hammer is a tool meant to deliver an impact to an object. The most common uses are for driving nails, fitting parts, forging metal and breaking up objects. Hammers are often designed for a specific purpose, and vary widely in their shape and structure. The usual features are a handle and a head, with most of the weight in the head. The basic design is hand-operated, but there are also many mechanically operated models for heavier uses.
Hiragana: Hiragana is a Japanese syllabary, one component of the Japanese writing system, along with katakana, kanji, and the Latin alphabet Hiragana and katakana are both kana systems, in which each character represents one mora. Each kana is either a vowel such as "a"; a consonant followed by a vowel such as "ka"; or "n", a nasal sonorant which, depending on the context, sounds either like English m, n, or ng, or like the nasal vowels of French.
History of Israel: In the Book of Genesis, Abraham's grandson was Jacob who changed his name to Israel and had twelve sons who each fathered twelve tribes also known as the "children of Israel". Judah was the oldest of Israel's sons. Evidence of a Jewish presence in Israel dates back over 3,000 years, to the formation of the religion and people. The name "Jews" derives from their origin in the Kingdom of Judah.
History of Malaysia: Malaysia is a country in South East Asia (near Indonesia) whose strategic sea-lane position brought trade and foreign influences that fundamentally influenced its history. Hindu India, the Islamic Middle East and Christian Europe to its west, and China and Japan with one of successive phases of outside influence, followed by the mid-twentieth century establishment of independence from foreign colonial powers. Hindu and Buddhist cultures imported from India dominated early Malaysian history.
House of Hohenstaufen: The House of Hohenstaufen (or the Staufer) was a dynasty of German kings lasting from 1138 to 1254. Three of these kings were also crowned Holy Roman Emperor. In 1194 the Hohenstaufen also became Kings of Sicily. Staufen, the adjective and plural of Staufer, is also the name of their castle in Swabia built by the first known member of the dynasty, Frederick I, Duke of Swabia. Therefore the dynasty is sometimes called Swabian dynasty after the family's ducal origin.
History of Libya: The history of Libya includes the history of its rich mix of people added to the indigenous Berber tribes. For most of their history, the people of Libya have been subjected to varying degrees of foreign control. The modern history of independent Libya began in 1951. The history Libya is covered under five distinct periods: Ancient period, the Islamic period, Ottoman rule, Italian rule, and the modern era.
Harvey Mudd College: Harvey Mudd College is a private residential liberal arts college of science, engineering, and mathematics, located in Claremont, California. It is one of the institutions of the contiguous Claremont Colleges. Harvey Mudd shares university resources (libraries, dining halls, etc. ) with the other institutions in the Claremont Colleges, including Pitzer College, Scripps College, Claremont McKenna College, and Pomona College.
Heaven: In religion, Heaven is the English name for a transcendental realm wherein human beings who have transcended human living live in an afterlife. The term "heaven" may refer to the physical heavens, the sky or the seemingly endless expanse of the universe beyond, the traditional literal meaning of the term in English.
History of Afghanistan: The detailed history of Afghanistan begins around 330 BC with the arrival of Alexander the Great and his Greek army although civilization had existed on the land for thousands of years. The state of Afghanistan has been referred to by other names in the past. It is the land where many powerful kingdoms established their capitals, including the Kushan, Saffarid, Ghaznavid, Ghurid, Timurid, Mughal, Hotaki, and the Durrani Empire.
History of modern Greece: The history of modern Greece covers the history of Greece from the recognition of independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1832 after the Greek War of Independence to the present day.
Henry Rollins: Henry Rollins (born February 13, 1961 as Henry Lawrence Garfield) is an American singer-songwriter, raconteur, stand-up comedian, spoken word artist, writer, publisher, actor, radio DJ, and activist. After joining the short-lived Washington D.C. band State of Alert in 1980, Rollins fronted the California hardcore punk band Black Flag from 1981 until 1986.
Heracles: In Greek mythology, Heracles or Herakles ( + , ; a compound of the goddess 'Hera' and the Greek word 'kleos', meaning "glory of Hera", or "glorious through Hera"), Alcides or Alcaeus() (original name), was a divine hero, the son of Zeus () and Alcmene, foster son of Amphitryon and great-grandson (and half-brother) of Perseus ().
Hub: Hub, HUB, Hubs or HUBS may refer to:
House of Habsburg: The House of Habsburg (also known as House of Austria) was one of the most important royal houses of Europe and is best known for being an origin of all of the formally elected Holy Roman Emperors between 1438 and 1740, as well as rulers of the Austrian and Spanish Empires and several other countries. Originally from Switzerland, the dynasty first reigned in Austria, which they ruled for over six centuries.
Hadron: In particle physics, a hadron is a particle made of quarks held together by the strong force (similarly to how molecules are held together by the electromagnetic force). Hadrons are categorized into two families: baryons (made of three quarks), and mesons (made of one quark and one antiquark). The two most well-known types of hadron are protons and neutrons (both baryons), which can be found in the atomic nuclei.
Heisuke Hironaka: Heisuke Hironaka ( Hironaka Heisuke; born 9 April 1931) is a Japanese mathematician. After completing his undergraduate studies at Kyoto University, he received his Ph.D. from Harvard while under the direction of Oscar Zariski. He won the Fields Medal in 1970. He is celebrated for proving in 1964 that singularities of algebraic varieties admit resolutions in characteristic zero.
Hearts: Hearts is an "evasion-type" trick-taking playing card game for four players, although variations can accommodate 3-6 players. The game is also known as Black Lady, Chase the Lady, Crubs, Black Maria, and Black Bitch, though any of these may refer to the similar but differently-scored game Black Lady. The game is regarded as a member of the Whist family of trick-taking games, but the game is unique among Whist variants in that it is an evasion-type game.
Hastings: Hastings is a town and Borough on the coast of East Sussex in England. It includes originally separate settlements, as well as the inevitable growth of the town through the building of new estates. In historical terms, Hastings can claim fame through its connection with the Norman conquest of England; and also because it became one of the medieval Cinque Ports. Hastings was, for centuries, an important fishing port; although much reduced, it has the largest beach-based fishing fleet in England.
House of Commons of the United Kingdom: The House of Commons is the lower house of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, which also comprises the Sovereign and the House of Lords. Both Commons and Lords meet in the Palace of Westminster. The Commons is a democratically elected body, consisting of 646 members, who are known as "Members of Parliament" (MPs). Members are elected through the first-past-the-post system by electoral districts known as constituencies.
Human rights: Human rights are those rights which are held by all human beings. The concept of human rights is a universalist product of the Enlightenment in Europe and the United States, and has since spread around the world. Egalitarian in outlook, proponents of the concept usually assert that all human beingsregardless of cultural, organisational, or ethnic associationsare entitled to legal recognition of certain civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights.
Heavy metal: Heavy metal may refer to Heavy metal (chemistry), any metallic chemical element within the upper range of atomic weights Heavy metal music, a genre of music Heavy Metal (magazine), an American fantasy magazine based on the French magazine Mal Hurlant Heavy Metal (film), a 1981 animated film based on the magazine Heavy Metal 2000, its sequel ', a book about Operation Iraqi Freedom Heavy Metal (G.I. Joe), a character from the G.I.
Hebrew grammar: Hebrew grammar is partly analytical, expressing such forms as dative, ablative, and accusative using prepositional particles rather than morphological cases. However, inflection plays a decisive role in the formation of the verbs, the declension of prepositions (i.e. with pronominal suffixes), and the genitive construct of nouns as well as the formation of the plural of nouns and adjectives.
Hello world program: A "Hello World" program is a computer program which prints out "Hello, world!" on a display device. It is used in many introductory tutorials for teaching a programming language. Such a program is typically one of the simplest programs possible in most computer languages. It is often considered to be tradition among programmers for people attempting to learn a new programming language to write a "Hello World!" program as one of the first steps of learning that particular language.
Hash table: In computer science, a hash table or hash map is a data structure that uses a hash function to efficiently map certain identifiers or keys (e.g. , person names) to associated values (e.g. , their telephone numbers). The hash function is used to transform the key into the index (the hash) of an array element (the slot or bucket) where the corresponding value is to be sought.
Hebrew phonology: This article is about the phonology of the Hebrew language based on the Israeli dialect. It deals with current phonology and phonetics as well as with historical developments thereof, including geographical variants. Hebrew has been used primarily for liturgical, literary, and scholarly purposes for most of the past two millennia. As a consequence, its pronunciation has been strongly influenced by the vernacular of each individual Jewish community.
House of Hohenzollern: The House of Hohenzollern is a noble family and royal dynasty of electors, kings and emperors of Prussia, Germany and Romania. It originated in the area around the town of Hechingen in Swabia during the 11th century. They took their name from their ancestral home, the Burg Hohenzollern castle near Hechingen. The family uses the motto Nihil Sine Deo . The family coat of arms, first adopted in 1192, began as a simple shield quarterly sable and argent.
Hang gliding: Hang gliding is an air sport in which a pilot flies a light and unmotorized foot-launchable aircraft called a hang glider. Most modern hang gliders are made of an aluminium alloy or composite-framed fabric wing. The pilot is ensconced in a harness suspended from the airframe, and exercises control by shifting body weight in opposition to a control frame, but other devices, including modern aircraft flight control systems, may be used.
Hole: A hole is an opening in a solid. Hole or holes may also refer to: Black hole Blind hole Electron hole, a concept in physics and chemistry Fox hole or spider hole, in the military Manhole, an opening in the ground to access the sewer under a city Murder hole Portable hole, a fictional device Porthole, a window on a ship's external hull Punchhole, a hole punched in paper Sound hole, on an musical instrument Tone hole Touch hole Whitewater hole, a feature found in some whitewater rapids
Halloween: Halloween (also spelled Hallowe'en) is an annual holiday celebrated on October 31. It has roots in the Celtic festival of Samhain and the Christian holy day of All Saints, but is today largely a secular celebration. Halloween activities include trick-or-treating, wearing costumes and attending costume parties, carving jack-o'-lanterns, ghost tours, bonfires, apple bobbing, visiting haunted attractions, pranks, telling scary stories, and watching horror films.
Hayling Island: Hayling Island is an island off the south coast of England, in the borough of Havant in the county of Hampshire. It is twinned with Gorron, Mayenne, France.
History of France: The history of France goes back to the arrival of the earliest human being in what is now France. Members of the genus Homo entered the area hundreds of thousands of years ago, while the first modern homo sapiens, the Cro-Magnons, arrived around 40,000 years ago. A number of important archaeological sites have been discovered in the country, testifying to continuous habitation by modern humans from the Upper Palaeolithic.
Hahn Banach theorem: In mathematics, the Hahn-Banach theorem is a central tool in functional analysis. It allows the extension of bounded linear functionals defined on a subspace of some vector space to the whole space, and it also shows that there are "enough" continuous linear functionals defined on every normed vector space to make the study of the dual space interesting.
Hard science fiction: Hard science fiction is a category of science fiction characterized by an emphasis on scientific or technical detail, or on scientific accuracy, or on both. The term was first used in print in 1957 by P. Schuyler Miller in a review of John W. Campbell, Jr. 's Islands of Space in Astounding Science Fiction.
Handloading: Handloading or reloading is the process of loading firearm cartridges or shotgun shells by assembling the individual components (brass/shotshell, primer, powder, and bullet/shot), rather than purchasing completely-assembled, factory-loaded cartridges. Generally only Boxer-primed cases are reloaded.
Houston Texans: The Houston Texans is a professional American football team based in Houston, Texas, United States. The team is currently a member of the Southern Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Texans joined the NFL in 2002 as an expansion team after Houston's previous franchise, the Houston Oilers, moved to Nashville, Tennessee. The team is owned by Bob McNair.
Heart of Oak: "Heart of Oak" is the official march of the Royal Navy of the United Kingdom. It is also the official march of the Canadian Navy. The music was composed by Dr William Boyce, and the words were written by the 18th Century English actor David Garrick. Heart of Oak was originally written as an opera.
Harold Holt: Harold Edward Holt, CH (5 August 1908 - 17 December 1967) was an Australian politician and was the 17th Prime Minister of Australia. His term as Prime Minister was brought to an early and dramatic end in December 1967 when he disappeared while swimming at Cheviot Beach near Portsea, Victoria, and was presumed drowned. Holt spent thirty-two years in Parliament, including many years as a senior Cabinet Minister, but was Prime Minister for only 22 months.
Heavy metal music: Heavy metal (often referred to simply as metal) is a genre of rock music that developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s, largely in the United Kingdom and the United States. With roots in blues-rock and psychedelic rock, the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick, massive sound, characterized by highly amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness. Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are generally associated with masculinity and machismo.
Helvetii: The Helvetii were a Celtic tribe or, probably more accurately, a confederation of Celtic tribes. Although originating in what is now Germany, they occupied most of the Swiss plateau at the time of their contact with the Roman Republic in the 1st century BC. They feature prominently in Julius Caesars commentaries on the Gallic War. According to Caesar, the Helvetians were divided into four subgroups, which he called pagi. While Caesar only names the Verbigeni (Bell. Gall.
Heretics of Dune: Heretics of Dune is a 1984 science fiction novel by Frank Herbert, fifth in a series of six novels. It was ranked as the #13 hardcover fiction best seller of 1984 by The New York Times.
Halakha: Halakha also transliterated Halocho and Halacha is the collective body of Jewish religious law, including biblical law and later talmudic and rabbinic law, as well as customs and traditions. Judaism classically draws no distinction in its laws between religious and ostensibly non-religious life. Hence, Halakha guides not only religious practices and beliefs, but numerous aspects of day-to-day life.
List of kings of Persia: The following is a comprehensive list of kings of Persia, which includes all of the empires ruling over geographical Iran and their rulers.
History of ancient Israel and Judah: The history of ancient Israel and Judah refers to the Iron Age kingdoms of Israel (Samaria) and Judah. They emerged from the regional Canaanite and Israelite culture of the Late bronze age, and were based on villages that formed and grew in the southern Levant highlands (i.e. today's definition for the region between the coastal plan and the Jordan Valley) between c.1200-1000 BCE, a period during which the biblical united monarchy was formed and eventually split to these two kingdoms.
Hampshire: Hampshire, sometimes historically Southamptonshire, Hamptonshire, (abbr. Hants), "Old Hampshire" or the County of Southampton, is a county on the south coast of England. The county borders (clockwise from West), Dorset, Wiltshire, Berkshire, Surrey and West Sussex. The county has an area of 3,700 square kilometres (1,400 sq mi) and at its widest points is about 86 kilometres (53 mi) east-west and 76 kilometres (47 mi) north-south.
Henry J. Heinz: Henry John Heinz (October 11, 1844 - May 14, 1919) was a German-American businessman. Heinz was one of eight children born to John Henry Heinz. Both parents had emigrated from Kallstadt, Germany and settled in the Birmingham section of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvaniatoday known as the South Side. When Henry was three hundred years old, the family moved several miles up the Allegheny River to the little town of Sharpsburg.
H. J. Heinz Company: H. J. Heinz Company, commonly known as Heinz and famous for its "57 Varieties" slogan and its ketchup, is an American food company with world headquarters in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Perhaps best known for its ketchup, the H.J. Heinz Company manufactures thousands of food products in plants on six continents and markets these products in more than 200 countries and territories. Heinz ranked first in ketchup in the United States with a market share in excess of 50 percent.
Huffman coding: In computer science and information theory, Huffman coding is an entropy encoding algorithm used for lossless data compression. The term refers to the use of a variable-length code table for encoding a source symbol (such as a character in a file) where the variable-length code table has been derived in a particular way based on the estimated probability of occurrence for each possible value of the source symbol. It was developed by David A. Huffman while he was a Ph.D.
High-density lipoprotein: High-density lipoprotein (HDL) is one of the five major groups of lipoproteins that enable lipids like cholesterol and triglycerides to be transported within the water-based bloodstream. In healthy individuals, about thirty percent of blood cholesterol is carried by HDL.
Percolozoa: The Percolozoa are a group of colourless protozoa, including many that can transform between amoeboid, flagellate, and encysted stages.
Highlander franchise: Highlander is a film and television franchise that began with a 1986 fantasy movie starring Christopher Lambert, who plays Connor MacLeod, the Highlander. Born in Glenfinnan, in the Scottish Highlands in the 16th century, MacLeod is one of a number of Immortals. Over the years, there have been five Highlander movies, two television series, an animated series, an animated movie, an animated flash-movie series, ten original novels, seventeen comic book issues, and various licensed merchandise.
Honolulu: Honolulu is the capital of and the most populous census-designated place (CDP) in the U.S. state of Hawaii. Although Honolulu refers to the urban area on the southeastern shore of the island of Oahu, the city and the county are consolidated, known as the City and County of Honolulu, and the city and county is designated as the entire island. The City and County of Honolulu is the only incorporated city in Hawaii, as all other local government entities are administered at the county level.
History of India: The history of India begins with evidence of human activity of Homo sapiens as long as 75,000 years ago (Tamil Nadu) and hominids (Homo Erectus) from about 500,000 years ago. The Indus Valley Civilization, which spread and flourished in the north-western part of the Indian subcontinent from c. 3300 to 1300 BCE, was the first major civilization in India. A sophisticated and technologically advanced urban culture developed in the Mature Harappan period, from 2600 to 1900 BCE.
Hal Clement: Harry Clement Stubbs (May 30, 1922 - October 29, 2003) better known by the pen name Hal Clement, was an American science fiction writer and a leader of the hard science fiction subgenre.
Heathers: Heathers is a 1989 black comedy film starring Winona Ryder, Christian Slater, and Shannen Doherty. The film portrays four girls in a trend-setting clique at a fictional Ohio high school. The girls three of whom are named Heather rule the school through intimidation, contempt, and sex appeal. Heathers brought director Michael Lehmann and producer Denise Di Novi the 1990 Independent Spirit Award for Best First Feature.
Houston Astros: The Houston Astros is a Major League Baseball team located in Houston, Texas. They are a member of the Central Division of the National League. Since 2000, they have played their home games at Minute Maid Park, formerly known as Enron Field. The Astros joined MLB under the name Colt .45s along with the New York Mets in 1962. Their current majority owner is Drayton McLane, Jr.
Harmonic oscillator: In classical mechanics, a harmonic oscillator is a system which, when displaced from its equilibrium position, experiences a restoring force, F, proportional to the displacement, x according to Hooke's law: where k is a positive constant.
Handfasting: Handfasting is a traditional European ceremony of (temporary or permanent) betrothal or wedding.
Halld r Laxness: Halld Kiljan Laxness (born Halld Gusson) (April 23, 1902February 8, 1998) was a twentieth-century Icelandic novelist and author of Independent People, The Atom Station, and Iceland's Bell. He won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1955.
Federation of Expellees: The Federation of Expellees or Bund der Vertriebenen (BdV) is a non-profit organization formed to represent the interests of Germans who either fled their homes in parts of Central and Eastern Europe, or were expelled following World War II.
History of the Pacific Islands: History of the Pacific Islands covers the history of the islands in the Pacific Ocean.
Hollow Earth: According to the Hollow Earth hypothesis, the planet Earth is either wholly hollow or otherwise contains a substantial interior space. The hypothesis has long been contradicted by overwhelming observational evidence, as well as by the modern understanding of planet formation; the scientific community has dismissed the notion since at least the late 18th century. The concept of a hollow Earth still recurs in folklore and as the premise for a subgenre of adventure fiction.
Harp: A harp is a stringed instrument which has the plane of its strings positioned perpendicular to the soundboard. It is classified as a poo by the Harvard Dictionary of Music and only types of harps are in that class of instruments with plucked strings. All harps have a neck, resonator, and strings. Some, known as frame harps, also have a forepillar; those lacking the forepillar are referred to as open harps.
History of Albania: The History of Albania emerges from the prehistoric stage from the 4th century BCE, with early records of Illyria in Greco-Roman historiography. The modern territory of Albania has no counterpart in antiquity, comprising parts of the Roman provinces of Dalmatia, Macedonia, and Moesia Superior. The territory remained under Roman control until the Slavic migrations of the 7th century, and was integrated into the Bulgarian Empire in the 9th century.
History of the graphical user interface: The graphical user interface, understood as the use of graphic icons and a pointing device to control a computer, has over the last four decades a steady history of incremental refinements built on some constant core principles. Several vendors have created their own windowing systems based on independent code but sharing the same basic elements that define the WIMP paradigm.
Homeland: A homeland (rel. country of origin and native land) is the concept of the place to which an ethnic group holds a long history and a deep cultural association with - the country in which a particular national identity began. As a common noun, it simply connotes the country of one's origin. When used as a proper noun, the word, as well as its cognates in other languages (i.e.
Hamas: Hamas ( ams, an acronym of arakat al-Muqwamat al-Islmiyyah, meaning "Islamic Resistance Movement") is a Palestinian Islamic socio-political organization which includes a paramilitary force, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades. Since June 2007, after winning a large majority in the Palestinian Parliament and defeating rival Palestinian party Fatah in a series of violent clashes, Hamas has governed the Gaza portion of the Palestinian Territories.
Hani Hanjour: A pilot who had lived intermittently in the United States for ten years, Hani Saleh Hanjour, (30 August 1972 - 11 September 2001) was one of five men named by the FBI as hijackers of American Airlines Flight 77 in the September 11 attacks. The FBI believes that he piloted the plane and crashed it into The Pentagon. Hanjour is largely considered to have been among the most conservative and religiously observant of the hijackers.
Hezbollah: Hezbollah is a Shi'a Islamist political and paramilitary organisation based in Lebanon. Hezbollah is now also a major provider of social services, which operate schools, hospitals, and agricultural services for thousands of Lebanese Shiites, and plays a significant force in Lebanese politics. It is regarded as a resistance movement throughout much of the Arab and Muslim world. Many governments, including Arab ones, have condemned actions by Hezbollah while others have praised the party.
Hyena: The Hyaenidae is a mammalian family of order Carnivora. The Hyaenidae family, native to both African and Asian continents, consists of four living species, the Striped Hyena and Brown Hyena (genus Hyaena), the Spotted Hyena (genus Crocuta), and the Aardwolf (genus Proteles).
Hyaena: Hyaena is a genus of two living species of hyenas: The striped hyena from western Asia and northern Africa and the brown hyena from southern Africa. It has been argued that the brown hyena should be placed in the genus Parahyeana or even Pachycrocuta, but recently it has been placed back in the genus. The brown hyena's skull is larger than the striped hyena's skull. The male brown hyena is slightly larger than the female. The sexes of the striped hyena are both the same size.
Hershey Chase experiment: The Hershey-Chase experiments were a series of experiments conducted in 1952 by Alfred Hershey and Martha Chase, confirming that DNA was the genetic material, which had first been demonstrated in the 1944 Avery-MacLeod-McCarty experiment. While DNA had been known to biologists since 1869, most assumed at the time that proteins carried the information for inheritance.
History of religions: The history of religion refers to the written record of human religious experiences and ideas. This period of religious history typically begins with the invention of writing about 5,000 years ago (3,000 BCE) in the Near East. The prehistory of religion relates to the study of religious beliefs that existed prior to the advent of written records. The timeline of religion is a comparative chronology of religion.
House music: House is a style of electronic dance music that originated in Chicago, Illinois, USA in the early 1980s. It was initially popularized in mid-1980s discothues catering to the African-American, Latino American, and gay communities; first in Chicago, then in Detroit, New York City, New Jersey, and Miami. It then reached Europe before becoming infused in mainstream pop and dance music worldwide since the early to mid-1990s.
Hanover New Hampshire: Hanover is a town along the Connecticut River in Grafton County, New Hampshire, United States. The population was 10,850 at the 2000 census. In 2007, CNN and Money magazine rated Hanover the second best place to live in America. Dartmouth College and the US Army Corps of Engineers Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory (CRREL) are located in town. Hanover is one of only a handful of communities where the Appalachian Trail passes through the town center.
History of St Albans: St Albans is in southern Hertfordshire, England, around 22 miles (35km) north of London, beside the site of a Catuvellauni settlement and the Roman town of Verulamium and on the River Ver. St Albans is Hertfordshire's oldest town, a modern city shaped by over 2000 years of continuous human occupation.
HMS Beagle: HMS Beagle was a Cherokee class 10-gun brig-sloop of the Royal Navy. She was launched on 11 May 1820 from the Woolwich Dockyard on the River Thames, at a cost of 7,803. In July of that year she took part in a fleet review celebrating the coronation of King George IV of the United Kingdom in which she was the first ship to sail under the new London Bridge. After that there was no immediate need for Beagle so she was "lay in ordinary", moored afloat but without masts or rigging.
Head end: Head end may refer to: In broadcast: A cable television headend, a master facility for receiving television signals for processing and distribution over a cable television system. A central control device, within CATV systems, that provides centralized functions such as remodulation.
Hitachi 6309: The 6309 is Hitachi's CMOS version of the Motorola 6809 microprocessor. While in "Emulation Mode" it is fully compatible with the 6809. To the 6809 specifications it adds higher clock rates, enhanced features, new instructions, and additional registers. Most new instructions were added to support the additional registers, as well as up to 32-bit math, hardware division, bit manipulations, and block transfers. The 6309 is generally 30% faster in native mode than the 6809.
W. Heath Robinson: William Heath Robinson (31 May 1872 - 13 September 1944) was an English cartoonist and illustrator, who signed himself W. Heath Robinson. He is best known for drawings of eccentric machines and "Heath Robinson" has entered the language as a description of any unnecessarily complex and implausible contraption.
Hominy: Hominy or nixtamal is dried maize kernels which have been treated with an alkali. Traditional Mexican recipes describe a preparation process consisting primarily of cooking in lime-water. In either case, the process is called nixtamalization, and removes the germ and the hard outer hull from the kernels, making them more palatable, easier to digest, and easier to process.
Heraclius: Flavius Heraclius Augustus was a Byzantine Emperor of Armenian origin, who ruled the Eastern Roman Empire or Byzantine Empire. He was in power for over thirty years, from October 5, 610 to February 11, 641 and was responsible for abandoning the use of Latin in favour of the Greek language in official documents, further Hellenising the Empire.
Henry the Fowler: Henry I the Fowler (876 - 2 July 936) was the Duke of Saxony from 912 and King of the Germans from 919 until his death. First of the Ottonian Dynasty of German kings and emperors, he is generally considered to be the founder and first king of the medieval German state, known until then as East Francia. An avid hunter, he obtained the epithet "the Fowler" because he was allegedly fixing his birding nets when messengers arrived to inform him that he was to be king.
Hansie Cronje: Wessel Johannes "Hansie" Cronje (25 September 1969 - 1 June 2002) was a South African cricketer and captain of the South African national cricket team in the 1990s. He was voted the 11th greatest South African in 2004 despite having been banned for life from professional cricket for his role in a match-fixing scandal.
Hultsfred Municipality: Hultsfred Municipality (Hultsfreds kommun) is a municipality in Kalmar County, in south-eastern Sweden. The seat is in the town of Hultsfred. The present municipality was created in 1971 through the amalgamation of the market town of Hultsfred (instituted in 1927) with a number of surrounding municipalities. In 1863 there were eight entities in the area. Hultsfred Municipality is known as the site of the largest rock festival in Sweden, the Hultsfred Festival.
Hannibal: Hannibal, son of Hamilcar Barca, (248-183 or 182 BC), commonly known as Hannibal, was a Carthaginian military commander and tactician who is popularly credited as one of the most talented commanders in history. His father Hamilcar Barca was the leading Carthaginian commander during the First Punic War, his younger brothers were Mago and Hasdrubal, and he was brother-in-law to Hasdrubal the Fair.
Parliament of the United Kingdom: The Parliament of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (commonly referred to as the British Parliament, the Parliament at Westminster or, formerly, the Imperial Parliament) is the supreme legislative body in the United Kingdom and British overseas territories. Parliament alone possesses legislative supremacy and thereby ultimate power over all other political bodies in the UK and its territories. At its head is the Sovereign, Queen Elizabeth II.
Habakkuk: Habakkuk or Havakuk was a prophet in the Hebrew Bible. The etymology of the name of Habakkuk is not clear. The name is possibly related to the Akkadian khabbaququ, the name of a fragrant plant, or the Hebrew root , meaning "embrace". He is the eighth of the twelve minor prophets and likely the author of the Book of Habakkuk, which bears his name.
Hosea: Hosea was the son of Beeri and a prophet in Israel in the 8th century BC. He is one of the Twelve Prophets of the Jewish Hebrew Bible, also known as the Minor Prophets of the Christian Old Testament. Hosea is often seen as a "prophet of doom", but underneath his message of destruction is a promise of restoration. The Talmud claims that he was the greatest prophet of his generation, which included the more famous Isaiah.
Haggai: Haggai was one of the twelve minor prophets and the author of the Book of Haggai. His name means "my feast". He was the first of three prophets (with Zechariah, his contemporary, and Malachi, who lived about one hundred years later), whose ministry belonged to the period of Jewish history which began after the return from captivity in Babylon. Scarcely anything is known of his personal history. He may have been one of the captives taken to Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar.
History of present-day nations and states: File:Flag of Abkhazia. svg History of Abkhazia - Republic of Abkhazia File:Flag of Afghanistan. svg History of Afghanistan - Islamic Republic of Afghanistan File:Flag of the United Kingdom. svg History of Akrotiri - Sovereign Base Area of Akrotiri (UK overseas territory) File:Flag of and. svg History of and - and (Autonomous province of Finland) File:Flag of Albania. svg History of Albania - Republic of Albania File:Flag of Algeria.
Herman Hollerith: Herman Hollerith (February 29, 1860 - November 17, 1929) was a German-American statistician who developed a mechanical tabulator based on punched cards to rapidly tabulate statistics from millions of pieces of data. He was the founder of the company that became IBM.
Hymenoptera: Hymenoptera is one of the largest orders of insects, comprising the sawflies, wasps, bees, and ants. The name refers to the heavy wings of the insects, and is derived from the Ancient Greek (humen): membrane and (pteron): wing. The hindwings are connected to the forewings by a series of hooks called hamuli. Females typically have a special ovipositor for inserting eggs into hosts or otherwise inaccessible places. The ovipositor is often modified into a stinger.
Hannibal Hamlin: Hannibal Hamlin (August 27, 1809 - July 4, 1891) was the 15th Vice President of the United States, serving under President Abraham Lincoln from 1861-1865. He was the first Vice President from the Republican Party. Prior to his election in 1860, Hamlin served in the United States Senate, the House of Representatives, and, briefly, as the 26th Governor of Maine.
History of painting: The history of painting reaches back in time to artifacts from pre-historic humans, and spans all cultures, that represents a continuous, though disrupted, tradition from Antiquity. Across cultures, and spanning continents and millennia, the history of painting is an ongoing river of creativity, that continues into the 21st century.
Hopwood Program: The Hopwood Program administers the University of Michigan Hopwood Award in literature, as well as several other awards in writing. It is located in the Hopwood Room at the University of Michigan and serves the needs and interests of Hopwood contestants. The Room was established by Professor Roy W. Cowden, Director of the Hopwood Awards from 1933 to 1952, who generously contributed a part of his library, which has grown through the addition of many volumes of contemporary literature.
Hopwood Award: The Hopwood Awards are a major scholarship program at the University of Michigan, founded by Avery Hopwood. Under the terms of the will of Avery Hopwood, a prominent American dramatist and member of the Class of 1905 of The University of Michigan, one-fifth of Mr. Hopwood's estate was given to the Regents of the University for the encouragement of creative work in writing.
Hungarian language: Hungarian (magyar nyelv) is a Uralic language, more specifically a Finno-Ugric language related to Finnish, Estonian and a number of other minority languages spoken in the Baltic states and northern European Russia eastward into central Siberia. Finno-Ugric languages are not related to the Indo-european languages that dominate Europe but have acquired loan words from them. Hungarian is mainly spoken in Hungary and by the Hungarian communities in the seven neighbouring countries.
Hockey: Hockey refers to any of a family of sports in which two teams play against each other by trying to maneuver a ball, or a hard, round, rubber or heavy plastic disc called a puck, into the opponent's net or goal, using a hockey stick.
Homeostasis: Homeostasis is the property of a system, either open or closed, that regulates its internal environment and tends to maintain a stable, constant condition. Typically used to refer to a living organism, the concept came from that of milieu interieur that was created by Claude Bernard and published in 1865. Multiple dynamic equilibria adjustment and regulation mechanisms make homeostasis possible.
Hatfield Hertfordshire: Hatfield, originally Bishop's Hatfield, is in the Welwyn Hatfield district of Hertfordshire, in the south of England. It forms part of the Welwyn Hatfield constituency which also includes Welwyn Garden City and has been twinned with the Dutch port town of Zierikzee since 1953. Its MP is Grant Shapps. It is known as the town where the first production-line jet airliner, the de Havilland Comet was built and as the site of a tragic rail crash in 2000.
Helene Kr ller-M ller: Helene Krler-Mller (February 11, 1869 - December 14, 1939) was one of the first European women to put together a major art collection. She was born Helene Emma Laura Juliane Mller into a wealthy industrialist family in Germany. She married a Dutchman named Anton Krler in 1888 and used both surnames in accordance with Dutch tradition. Helene Krler-Mller was an avid art collector, and one of the first people to recognise the genius of Vincent van Gogh.
Hans-Georg Gadamer: Hans-Georg Gadamer (February 11, 1900 - March 13, 2002) was a German philosopher of the continental tradition, best known for his 1960 magnum opus, Truth and Method (Wahrheit und Methode).
Hawick: Hawick is a town in the Scottish Borders in the south east of Scotland. It is best-known for its annual Common Riding. It is one of the farthest towns from the sea in Scotland, in the heart of Teviotdale and the largest town in the former county of Roxburghshire. It is also known for quality knitwear production. Hawick has distinctive sandstone buildings with slate roofs.
Honeymoon: A honeymoon is the traditional holiday taken by newlyweds (or between two people in an early harmonious period in a relationship) to celebrate their marriage in intimacy and seclusion. Today, honeymoons by Westerners are sometimes celebrated somewhere exotic or otherwise considered special and romantic.
Harold Kushner: Harold S. Kushner is a prominent American rabbi aligned with the progressive wing of Conservative Judaism.
Hertfordshire: Hertfordshire, abbreviated Herts, is a ceremonial and non-metropolitan county in the East region of England. The county town is Hertford. The county is one of the Home Counties and lies inland, bordered by Greater London, Buckinghamshire, Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Essex. Hertfordshire is well known as being the birthplace of Pope Adrian IV, the only pope ever from the British Isles.
Hotspot: Hot spot may refer to:
Heapsort: Heapsort is a comparison-based sorting algorithm, and is part of the selection sort family. Although somewhat slower in practice on most machines than a good implementation of quicksort, it has the advantage of a worst-case (n log n) runtime. Heapsort is an in-place algorithm, but is not a stable sort.
Heap data structure: In computer science, a heap is a specialized tree-based data structure that satisfies the heap property: if B is a child node of A, then key(A) key(B). This implies that an element with the greatest key is always in the root node, and so such a heap is sometimes called a max-heap. (Alternatively, if the comparison is reversed, the smallest element is always in the root node, which results in a min-heap.
List of basic health science topics: The following list provides as an overview and topical guide to health science:
Hour: The hour (common symbol h or hr) is a unit of time. It is not an SI unit but is accepted for use with the SI.
Hierarchy: A hierarchy is an arrangement of items (objects, names, values, categories, etc. ) in which the items are represented as being "above," "below," or "at the same level as" one another and with only one "neighbor" above and below each level. These classifications are made with regard to rank, importance, seniority, power status or authority. A hierarchy of power is called a power structure. Abstractly, a hierarchy is simply an ordered set or an acyclic graph.
Hemicellulose: A hemicellulose can be any of several heteropolymers (matrix polysaccharides), such as arabinoxylans present in almost all plant cell walls along with cellulose. While cellulose is crystalline, strong, and resistant to hydrolysis, hemicellulose has a random, amorphous structure with little strength. It is easily hydrolyzed by dilute acid or base as well as myriad hemicellulase enzymes.
Haemophilia: Haemophilia (also spelled hemophilia in North America, from the Greek haima 'blood' and philia 'friend') is a group of hereditary genetic disorders that impair the body's ability to control blood clotting or coagulation, which is used to stop bleeding when a blood vessel is broken. Haemophilia A is the most common form of the disorder, occurring at about 1 in 5,000-10,000 male births. Haemophilia B occurs at about 1 in about 20,000-34,000 male births.
Hickory disambiguation: Hickory is a type of tree (Carya species) found in North America and East Asia. Hickory may also refer to:
Hillbilly: Hillbilly is a term referring to people who dwell in rural, mountainous areas of the United States, primarily Appalachia and the Ozarks. Due to its strongly stereotypical connotations, the term is frequently considered derogatory, and so is usually offensive to those Americans of Ozark and Appalachian heritage. However, the term is also used in celebration of their culture by mountain people themselves.
Host: Host or hosts may refer to: A person who provides hospitality Host or sacramental bread Host (biology) organism harboring another organism on or in itself Host (psychology) "personality" emphasized in treating dissociative identity disorder Host (radio), the presenter or announcer on a radio show Host, (sometimes hostess, in feminine form) the presenter for an event Host, headwaiter (Matre d' or Matre d'hel) of a restaurant or hotel
Hern n Cort s: Hern Cort de Monroy y Pizarro, 1st Marquis of the Valle de Oaxaca (1485 - December 2, 1547) was a Spanish conquistador who led an expedition that caused the fall of the Aztec Empire and brought large portions of mainland Mexico under the King of Castile, in the early 16th century. Cort was part of the generation of Spanish colonizers that began the first phase of the Spanish colonization of the Americas.
Hezekiah: Hezekiah is the common transliteration of a name more properly transliterated as "izkiyyahu. " was the son of Ahaz and the 14th king of Judah. Edwin Thiele has concluded that his reign was between c. 715 and 686 BC. He is also one of the kings mentioned in the genealogy of Jesus in the Gospel of Matthew.
Herstory: Herstory is a neologism coined in the late 1960s as part of a feminist critique of conventional historiography. In feminist discourse the term refers to history (re-stated as "his story") written from a feminist perspective, emphasizing the role of women, or told from a woman's point of view. The word history, coming from the Ancient Greek , or histora, meaning "a learning or knowing by inquiry", through the Latin historia, is etymologically unrelated to the possessive pronoun his.
House of Cards: House of Cards is a political thriller novel written by Michael Dobbs, a former Chief of Staff at Conservative Party headquarters, which was set at the end of Margaret Thatcher's tenure as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. In 1990, it was televised in a critically and popularly acclaimed television drama serial by the BBC in four parts, from 18 November - 9 December 1990. The story was adapted by Andrew Davies.
Helen Gandy: Helen W. Gandy (April 8, 1897 - July 7, 1988) was an American civil servant. Gandy, who at age twenty-one left her native New Jersey for Washington, D.C. , was the secretary to Federal Bureau of Investigation director J. Edgar Hoover for fifty-four years. Hoover called her "indispensable" and she exercised great behind-the-scenes influence on Hoover and the workings of the Bureau.
History of London: London, the capital of the United Kingdom, has a recorded history that goes back over 2,000 years. During this time, it has grown to become one of the most significant financial and cultural capitals of the world. It has experienced plague, devastating fire, civil war, aerial bombardment and terrorist attacks. See City of London for details on the historic core of London.
Horsepower: Horsepower (HP) is the name of several units of measurement of power. The most common definitions equal between 735.5 to 746 watts. The horsepower is not recognized in the International System of Units (SI). The horsepower was originally defined to compare the output of steam engines with the power of draft horses. The unit was widely adopted to measure the output of piston engines, turbines, electric motors, and other machinery. The definition of the unit varied between geographical regions.
History of astronomy: Astronomy is the oldest of the natural sciences, dating back to antiquity, with its origins in the religious, mythological, and astrological practices of pre-history: vestiges of these are still found in astrology, a discipline long interwoven with public and governmental astronomy, and not completely disentangled from it until a few centuries ago in the Western World.
Haber process: The Haber process, also called the Haber-Bosch process, is the nitrogen fixation reaction of nitrogen gas and hydrogen gas, over an enriched iron catalyst, to produce ammonia. The Haber process is important because ammonia is difficult to produce on an industrial scale, and the fertilizer generated from the ammonia is responsible for sustaining one-third of the Earth's population.
Hot or Not: Hot or Not is a rating site that allows users to rate the attractiveness of photos submitted voluntarily by others. The site also offers a match making engine called 'Meet Me' and an extended profile feature called 'HOTLISTS'.
Histone: In biology, histones are strongly alkaline proteins found in eukaryotic cell nuclei, which package and order the DNA into structural units called nucleosomes. They are the chief protein components of chromatin, act as spools around which DNA winds, and play a role in gene regulation. Without histones, the unwound DNA in chromosomes would be very long.
Organizational hierarchy: A hierarchical organization is an organizational structure where every entity in the organization, except one, is subordinate to a single other entity. This arrangement is a form of a hierarchy. In an organization, the hierarchy usually consists of a singular/group of power at the top with subsequent levels of power beneath them.
Harry Secombe: Sir Harry Donald Secombe CBE (8 September 1921 - 11 April 2001) was a Welsh entertainer with a talent for comedy and a noted fine tenor singing voice. He is best known for playing Neddie Seagoon, the central character in the BBC radio comedy series The Goon Show (1951-60). He also appeared in musicals and, in his later years, was a prominent presenter of television shows incorporating hymns and other devotional songs.
H.263: H.263 is a video codec standard originally designed as a low-bitrate compressed format for videoconferencing. It was developed by the ITU-T Video Coding Experts Group (VCEG) in a project ending in 1995/1996 as one member of the H.26x family of video coding standards in the domain of the ITU-T.
Heroin: Heroin, or diacetylmorphine, also known as diamorphine, is a semi-synthetic opioid drug synthesized from morphine, a derivative of the opium poppy. It is the 3,6-diacetyl ester of morphine. The white crystalline form is commonly the hydrochloride salt diacetylmorphine hydrochloride, though often adulterated thus dulling the sheen and consistency from that to a matte white powder, which heroin freebase typically is.
Hinayana: Hnayna () is a Sanskrit and Pli term literally meaning: "the low vehicle", "the inferior vehicle", or "the deficient vehicle". The term appeared around the 1st or 2nd century CE. Its use in scholarly publications is controversial. There are differing views on the use and meaning of the term, both among scholars and within Buddhism.
Hellas Verona F.C.: Hellas Verona Football Club (commonly known simply as Verona, or Hellas within the city of Verona itself) is an Italian professional football team, based in Verona, Veneto. The team's colours are yellow and blue and gialloblu (literally, "yellow-blue" in Italian) is the team's most widely used nickname. The colours represent the city itself and Verona's emblem (a yellow cross on a blue shield) appears on most team apparel.
History painting: History painting is the painting of scenes with narrative content from classical history, Christian history, and mythology, as well as depicting the historical events of the far or near past. These include paintings with religious, mythological, historical, literary, or allegorical subjects. History painting may embody some interpretation of life or convey a moral or intellectual message.
Humphrey Bogart: Humphrey DeForest Bogart (December 25, 1899 - January 14, 1957) was an American actor. He has been called a cultural icon. After trying various jobs, Bogart began acting in 1921 and became a regular in Broadway productions in the 1920s and 1930s. When the stock market crash of 1929 reduced the demand for plays, Bogart turned to film.
Hyperbola: In mathematics a hyperbola is a curve, specifically a smooth curve that lies in a plane, which can be defined either by its geometric properties or by the kinds of equations for which it is the solution set. A hyperbola has two pieces, called connected components or branches, which are mirror images of each other and resembling two infinite bows. The hyperbola is one of the four kinds of conic section, formed by the intersection of a plane and a cone.
Humayun: Nasir ud-din Muhammad Humayun (March 17, 1508- March 4, 1556) was the second Mughal Emperor who ruled present day Afghanistan, Pakistan, and parts of northern India from 1530-1540 and again from 1555-1556. Like his father, Babur, he lost his kingdom early, but with Persian aid, he eventually regained an even larger one. On the eve of his death in 1556, the Mughal empire spanned almost one million square kilometers.
Howard Hughes: Howard Robard Hughes, Jr. (December 24, 1905 - April 5, 1976) was an American aviator, engineer, industrialist, film producer, film director, philanthropist, and one of the wealthiest people in the world. He gained prominence from the late 1920s as a maverick film producer, making big-budget and often controversial films like Hell's Angels, Scarface and The Outlaw.
Hugh Binning: Hugh Binning (1627-1653) was a Scottish philosopher. He became regent and professor of philosophy at the University of Glasgow in 1646, aged 19, a follower of James Dalrymple. In later life he was well known as an evangelical Christian.
Hook of Holland: The Hook of Holland, also known in English as the Hook, is a town in South Holland in the Netherlands. It is situated on the North Sea coast, on the north bank of the Nieuwe Waterweg ship canal. The town is administered by the municipality of Rotterdam as a district (wijk) of that city. The district of Hoek van Holland covers an area of 16.7 km (of which 13.92 km is land). On 1 January 1999 it had an estimated population of 9,400.
Prince-elector: The Prince-electors (or simply Electors) of the Holy Roman Empire were the members of the electoral college of the Holy Roman Empire, having the function of electing the Holy Roman Emperors. The heir-apparent to a prince-elector was known as an electoral prince. The dignity of Elector was extremely prestigious and second only to King or Emperor.
Henry Home Lord Kames: Henry Home, Lord Kames (1696 - 27 December 1782) was a Scottish philosopher of the 18th century. Born at Kames House, between Eccles and Birgham, Berwickshire, and educated at home by a private tutor, he became an advocate and was one of the leaders of the Scottish Enlightenment. In 1752, he was "raised to the bench", thus acquiring the title of Lord Kames. Home wrote much about the importance of property to society.
Hans Baldung: Hans Baldung, known as Hans Baldung Grien/Grn (c. 1480-1545) was a German Renaissance artist in painting and printmaking in woodcut. He was considered the most gifted student of Albrecht Drer.
Hendrick Avercamp: Hendrick Avercamp (bapt. January 27, 1585, Amsterdam - buried May 15, 1634, Kampen) was a Dutch painter. Avercamp studied in Amsterdam with the Danish-born portrait painter Pieter Isaacks (1569-1625), and perhaps also with David Vinckbooms. In 1608 he moved from Amsterdam to Kampen in the province of Overijssel. Avercamp was mute and was known as "de Stomme van Kampen" (the mute of Kampen).
Harwich: Harwich is a town in Essex, England and one of the Haven ports, located on the coast with the North Sea to the east. It is in the Tendring district. Nearby places include Felixstowe to the northeast, Ipswich to the northwest, Colchester to the southwest and Clacton-on-sea to the south.
Humanae Vitae: Humanae Vitae (Latin "Of Human Life") is an encyclical written by Pope Paul VI and promulgated on July 25, 1968. Subtitled "On the Regulation of Birth", it re-affirms the traditional teaching of the Catholic Church regarding abortion, contraception, and other issues pertaining to human life. Mainly because of its prohibition of all forms of artificial contraception, the encyclical has been controversial.
Hydropower: Hydropower, hydraulic power or water power is power that is derived from the force or energy of moving water, which may be harnessed for useful purposes. Prior to the widespread availability of commercial electric power, hydropower was used for irrigation, and operation of various machines, such as watermills, textile machines, sawmills, dock cranes, and domestic lifts.
Hammered dulcimer: The hammered dulcimer is a stringed musical instrument with the strings stretched over a trapezoidal sounding board. Typically, the hammered dulcimer is set on a stand, at an angle, before the musician, who holds small mallet hammers in each hand to strike the strings cf. Appalachian dulcimer. The Graeco-Roman dulcimer (sweet song), derives from the Latin dulcis (sweet) and the Greek melos (song).
History of Wikipedia: The earliest known proposal for an online encyclopedia was made by Rick Gates in 1993, but the concept of an open source web-based online encyclopedia was proposed a little later by Richard Stallman around 1999. The Wikipedia, was formally launched on 15 January 2001 by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger using the concept and technology of a wiki pioneered by Ward Cunningham.
Halfbakery: The halfbakery is a community-based ideas bank used by people who wish to propose and develop (not always serious) half-baked inventions. Among many similar such sites, it has distinguished itself by minimalism, irreverence, and a cast of regulars whose takes on suggested inventions are often funnier than the original submission.
Horse breeding: Horse breeding is reproduction in horses, and particularly the human-directed process of selective breeding of animals, particularly purebred horses of a given breed. While feral and wild horses breed successfully without human assistance, planned matings can be used to produce specifically desired characteristics in domesticated horses. Furthermore, modern breeding management and technologies can increase the rate of conception, a healthy pregnancy, and successful foaling.
Horse breed: Horse breed is a broad term with no clear consensus as to definition, but most commonly refers to selectively bred populations of domesticated horses, often with pedigrees recorded in a breed registry. However, the term is sometimes used in a very broad sense to define landrace animals, or naturally selected horses of a common phenotype located within a limited geographic region. Depending on definition, hundreds of "breeds" exist today, developed for many different uses.
Heterosexuality: Heterosexuality consists of sexual behavior, practices, and identity predicated on a primary preference or desire for the opposite sex.
Hull classification symbol: The United States Navy, United States Coast Guard, and United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration use hull classification symbols (sometimes called hull codes or hull numbers) to identify their ship types and each individual ship within each type. The system is somewhat analogous to a system of pennant numbers the Royal Navy and some European and Commonwealth navies (19 in total) use.
Hopewell Centre Hong Kong: Hopewell Centre is a skyscraper in Hong Kong. It is located at 183 Queen's Road East, in Wan Chai on Hong Kong Island. It is the first circular skyscraper in Hong Kong. It is named after Hong Kong-listed property firm Hopewell Holdings Limited (), which constructed the building. Hopewell Holdings Limited and is headquartered in the building and its CEO, Sir Gordon Wu Ying Sheung, has his office on the top floor of the building.
Habeas corpus: Habeas corpus is a writ, or legal action, through which a person can seek relief from unlawful detention, or the relief of another person. The writ of habeas corpus protects persons from harming themselves, or from being harmed by the judicial system. Originally a feature of English law, the writ of habeas corpus has historically been an important legal instrument safeguarding individual freedom against arbitrary state action.
Harwich Massachusetts: Harwich is a town on Cape Cod, in Barnstable County in the state of Massachusetts in the United States. Barnstable County is coextensive with Cape Cod. The town is a popular vacation spot, located near the Cape Cod National Seashore. Harwich's beaches are on "the Sound side" of Cape Cod; the shores that face Nantucket Sound. Harwich has 3 active harbors. Saquatucket, Wychmere and Allen Harbors are all in Harwich Port.
Human cloning: Human cloning is the creation of a genetically identical copy of a human (not usually referring to monozygotic multiple births), human cell, or human tissue. The ethics of cloning is an extremely controversial issue. The term is generally used to refer to artificial human cloning; human clones in the form of identical twins are commonplace, with their cloning occurring during the natural process of reproduction.
History of Asia: The history of Asia can be seen as the collective history of several distinct peripheral coastal regions such as, East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East linked by the interior mass of the Eurasian steppe. The coastal periphery was the home to some of the world's earliest known civilizations, with each of the three regions developing early civilizations around fertile river valleys. These valleys were fertile because the soil there was rich and could bare lots of root crops.
Henry the Navigator: Henry the Navigator was an infante of the Kingdom of Portugal and an important figure in the early days of the Portuguese Empire, being responsible for the beginning of the European worldwide explorations. Henry the Navigator was the third child of King John I of Portugal, the founder of the Aviz dynasty, and of Philippa of Lancaster, the daughter of John of Gaunt.
History of the Americas: The history of the Americas is the collective history of North and South America, including Central America and the Caribbean. It begins with people migrating to these areas from Asia during the height of an Ice Age. These groups are generally believed to have been isolated from peoples of the "Old World" until the coming of Europeans in the 10th and 15th centuries. The ancestors of today's American Indigenous peoples are Paleo-Indians they were hunter-gatherers who migrated into North America.
History of Oceania: The History of Oceania is the history of Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Fiji and other Pacific island nations.
Hanseatic League: The Hanseatic League (also known as the Hanse or Hansa) was an economic alliance of trading cities and their guilds that established and maintained a trade monopoly along the coast of Northern Europe. It stretched from the Baltic to the North Sea and inland, during the Late Middle Ages and early modern period.
History of Africa: The History of Africa commences with the first emergence of Homo sapiens in East Africa, continuing into its modern present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states. The History of Africa has been a challenge for researchers in the field of African studies due to the scarcity of written sources in large parts of Sub-Saharan Africa. Scholarly techniques such as the recording of oral history, historical linguistics, archeology and genetics have been crucial.
Holomorphic function: In mathematics, holomorphic functions are the central objects of study in complex analysis. A holomorphic function is a complex-valued function of one or more complex variables that is complex-differentiable in a neighborhood of every point in its domain. The existence of a complex derivative is a very strong condition, for it implies that any holomorphic function is actually infinitely differentiable and equal to its own Taylor series.
Historical African place names: This is a list of historical African place names. The names on the left are linked to the corresponding subregion(s) from History of Africa.
Horror fiction: Horror fiction is a genre of literature, which is intended to, or has the capacity to scare its readers, inducing feelings of horror and terror. Horror can be either supernatural or non-supernatural. The genre has ancient origins which were reformulated in the eighteenth century as Gothic horror, with publication of the Castle of Otranto (1764) by Horace Walpole.
History of Algeria: The fertile coastal plain of North Africa, especially west of Tunisia, is often called the Maghreb (or Maghrib). North Africa served as a transit region for people moving towards Europe or the Middle East. Thus, the region's inhabitants have been influenced by populations from other areas.
History of Zimbabwe: At the end of the Bush War there was a transition to majority rule in 1980. The United Kingdom ceremonially granted Zimbabwe independence on April 18, 1980 in accordance with the Lancaster House Agreement.
Hertz: The hertz is the SI unit of frequency defined as the number of cycles per second of a periodic phenomenon. One of its most common uses is the description of sinusoidal waves, particularly those used in radio and audio applications.
History of Christianity: The history of Christianity concerns the Christian religion and Church, from the ministry of Jesus up to contemporary times and denominations. Christianity differs most significantly from the other Abrahamic religions in the claim that Jesus Christ is God the Son. The vast majority of Christians believe in a triune God consisting of three unified and distinct persons: Father, Son and the Holy Spirit.
History of Russia: The history of Russia begins with that of the East Slavs. The first East Slavic state, Kievan Rus', adopted Christianity from the Byzantine Empire in 988, beginning the synthesis of Byzantine and Slavic cultures that defined Russian culture for the next millennium. Kievan Rus' ultimately disintegrated as a state, finally succumbing to Mongol invaders in the 1230s.
Heroic couplet: A heroic couplet is a traditional form for English poetry, commonly used for epic and narrative poetry; it refers to poems constructed from a sequence of rhyming pairs of iambic pentameter lines. The rhyme is always masculine. Use of the heroic couplet was first pioneered by Geoffrey Chaucer in the Legend of Good Women and the Canterbury Tales. Chaucer is also widely credited with first extensive use of iambic pentameter.
Herat: Hert, classically called the Aria, is a major city in western Afghanistan, in the province also known as Hert. It is situated in the valley of the Hari River, which flows from the mountains of central Afghanistan to the Karakum Desert in Turkmenistan. It is the third largest city of Afghanistan, with a population of 397,500. Persian-speaking Tajiks are the main inhabitants of the city, and are roughly the same as the Persians of Eastern Iran.
Hedeby: Hedeby (Old Norse Heibr, from hei = heathland, and br = yard, thus "heath yard"), mentioned by Alfred the Great as aet Haethe, in German Haddeby and Haithabu, a modern spelling of the runic Heib(r) was an important trading settlement in the Danish-northern German borderland during the Viking Age. It flourished from the 8th to the 11th centuries. The site is located towards the southern end of the Jutland Peninsula.
Hazara people: The Hazra are a Persian-speaking ethnic group who live mainly in the central region of Afghanistan and in Balochistan province of Pakistan. They are overwhelmingly Shia Muslims, with a Sunni minority, and comprise the third largest religious ethnic group of Afghanistan. Hazaras are also found in large numbers in neighboring Pakistan, especially in the city of Quetta, and also in Iran, mainly as refugees.
H r: H (often anglicized as Hod) is the brother of Baldr in Norse mythology. Guided by Loki he shot the mistletoe missile which was to slay the otherwise invulnerable Baldr. According to the Prose Edda and the Poetic Edda the goddess Frigg made everything in existence swear never to harm Baldr, except for the mistletoe which she found too young to demand an oath from. The gods amused themselves by trying weapons on Baldr and seeing them fail to do any harm.
Hawala: Hawala (also known as hundi) is an informal value transfer system based on the performance and honour of a huge network of money brokers, which are primarily located in the Middle East, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, and South Asia.
Humanist: Humanist may refer to: a proponent or practitioner of humanism, which has several distinct senses, which are listed at Humanism and at Humanism Humanist sans-serif, a classification of the sans-serif typeface Humanist (typography), a class of typeface styles Humanist (electronic seminar), an email discussion list on humanities computing The Humanist (journal), a magazine published by the American Humanist Association a scholar or academic in the Humanities
Hydroponics: Hydroponics (from the Greek words hydro water and ponos labor) is a method of growing plants using mineral nutrient solutions, in water, without soil. Terrestrial plants may be grown with their roots in the mineral nutrient solution only or in an inert medium, such as perlite, gravel, or mineral wool. Researchers discovered in the 19th century that plants absorb essential mineral nutrients as inorganic ions in water.
Henry Purcell: Henry Purcell (10 September 1659 - 21 November 1695), was an English organist and Baroque composer of secular and sacred music. Although Purcell incorporated Italian and French stylistic elements into his compositions, his legacy was a uniquely English form of Baroque music.
Hydrophobe: In chemistry, hydrophobicity (from the combining form of water in Attic Greek hydro- and for fear phobos) is the physical property of a molecule (known as a hydrophobe) that is repelled from a mass of water. Hydrophobic molecules tend to be non-polar and thus prefer other neutral molecules and nonpolar solvents. Hydrophobic molecules in water often cluster together forming micelles. Water on hydrophobic surfaces will exhibit a high contact angle.
Harley-Davidson: Harley-Davidson, often abbreviated H-D or Harley, is an American motorcycle manufacturer. Founded in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, during the first decade of the 20th century, it was one of two major American motorcycle manufacturers to survive the Great Depression. Harley-Davidson also survived a period of poor quality control and competition with Japanese manufacturers.
Hiberno-English: Hiberno-English - also known as Irish English - is the dialect of English spoken in Ireland. The English language was first brought to Ireland during the Norman invasion of Ireland in the late 12th century. However, because England was unable to control the country, English was only spoken by a small minority of people inhabiting an area known as the Pale around Dublin.
Home run: In baseball, a home run (abbreviated HR) is scored when the ball is hit in such a way that the batter is able to circle all the bases, ending at home plate and scoring runs for himself and each runner who was already on base, with no errors by the defensive team on the play.
Harmonic analysis: Harmonic analysis is the branch of mathematics that studies the representation of functions or signals as the superposition of basic waves. It investigates and generalizes the notions of Fourier series and Fourier transforms. The basic waves are called "harmonics" (in physics), hence the name "harmonic analysis," but the name "harmonic" in this context is generalized beyond its original meaning of integer frequency multiples.
Hendecasyllable: The hendecasyllable is a verse of eleven syllables, used in Ancient Greek and Latin quantitative verse as well as in medieval and modern European poetry.
Hartmann Schedel: Hartmann Schedel (13 February 1440 - 28 November 1514), was a German physician, humanist, historian, and one of the first cartographers to use the printing press. He was born in Nuremberg. Matheolus Perusinus served as his tutor. Schedel is best known for his writing the text for the Nuremberg Chronicle, known as Schedelsche Weltchronik, published in 1493 in Nuremberg. It was probably commissioned by Anton Koberger.
Hebrides: The Hebrides comprise a widespread and diverse archipelago off the west coast of Scotland. There are two main groups: the Inner and Outer Hebrides. These islands have a long history of occupation dating back to the Mesolithic and the culture of the residents has been affected by the successive influences of Celtic, Norse and English speaking peoples, which is reflected in the names given to the islands.
Harappa: Harappa is an archaeological site in Punjab, northeast Pakistan, about 20 km (12 mi) west of Sahiwal. The site takes its name from a modern village located near the former course of the Ravi River, some 5 km (3 mi) southeast of the site. The site contains the ruins of a Bronze Age fortified city, which was part of the Cemetery H culture and the Indus Valley Civilization, centered in Sindh and the Punjab.
Hexameter: Hexameter is a literary and poetic form, a line consisting of six metrical feet, as in the Iliad. It was the standard epic metre in Greek and became standard for Latin too. It was also used in other types of composition in Horace's satires, for instance, and Ovid's Metamorphoses. In Greek mythology, hexameter was invented by Hermes.
Timeline of Polish history: Dates and most important events in Polish history from prehistoric times up to the present day.
Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch: The Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch is a fictional weapon from the comedy film Monty Python and the Holy Grail. It bears a striking resemblance to the Sovereign's Orb of the United Kingdom, and seems to draw some inspiration from the Holy Spear of Antioch. Although a minor gag in the film, the Holy Hand Grenade (as it is more popularly known) has gone on to be a frequently referred-to element of Monty Python humour.
Himalia: Himalia may refer to: Himalia (moon), a moon of the planet Jupiter Himalia (mythology), a nymph from Cyprus in Greek mythology
Heracleidae: In Greek mythology, the Heracleidae or Heraclids were the numerous descendants of Heracles (Hercules), especially applied in a narrower sense to the descendants of Hyllus, the eldest of his four sons by Deianira (Hyllus was also sometimes thought of as Heracles' son by Melite . ) Other Heracleidae included Macaria, Lamos, Manto, Bianor, Tlepolemus, and Telephus.
HOL: HOL may stand for any of the following: The student reengagement program, Hands On Learning implemented by Hands On Learning Australia Head-of-line blocking Hellas On-Line, a Greek Internet service provider Higher-order logic, a branch of symbolic logic in which statements can be quantified over objects, predicates, and similar features HOL theorem prover House of Lords, the upper house of the UK parliament HOL, the former International Olympic Committee country code for the Netherlands
Hostile witness: A hostile witness is a witness in a trial who testifies for the opposing party or a witness who offers adverse testimony to the calling party during direct examination. A witness called by the opposing party is presumed hostile. A witness called by the direct examiner can be declared hostile by a judge, at the request of the examiner, when the witness' testimony is openly antagonistic or clearly prejudiced to the opposing party.
HIV: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a lentivirus (a member of the retrovirus family) that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a condition in humans in which the immune system begins to fail, leading to life-threatening opportunistic infections. Infection with HIV occurs by the transfer of blood, semen, vaginal fluid, pre-ejaculate, or breast milk. Within these bodily fluids, HIV is present as both free virus particles and virus within infected immune cells.
Henry I of England: Henry I (c. 1068/1069 - 1 December 1135) was the fourth son of William I of England. He succeeded his elder brother William II as King of England in 1100 and defeated his eldest brother, Robert Curthose, to become Duke of Normandy in 1106. He was called Beauclerc for his scholarly interests and Lion of Justice for refinements which he brought about in the administrative and legislative machinery of the time. Henry's reign is noted for its political opportunism.
Henry VII of England: Henry VII was King of England and Lord of Ireland from his seizing the crown on 22 August 1485 until his death on 21 April 1509, as the first monarch of the House of Tudor. Henry won the throne when his army defeated Richard III at the Battle of Bosworth Field. He was the last king of England to win his throne on the field of battle. Henry was successful in restoring the power and stability of the English monarchy after the political upheavals of the Wars of the Roses.
Henry VIII of England: Henry VIII (28 June 1491 - 28 January 1547) was King of England from 21 April 1509 until his death. He was also Lord of Ireland and claimant to the Kingdom of France. Henry was the second monarch of the House of Tudor, succeeding his father, Henry VII. Henry VIII was a significant figure in the history of the English monarchy.
Hentai: Hentai listen is a Japanese word that, in the West, is used when referring to sexually explicit or pornographic comics and animation, particularly those of Japanese origin such as anime, manga and computer games. In Japan it can be used to mean "metamorphosis" or "abnormality". The word "hentai" has a negative connotation to the Japanese and is commonly used to mean "sexually perverted".
Helene: Helene may refer to: Helene (name), a Greek feminine name Helene (mythology), two figures in Greek mythology Helen of Troy Helene (moon), a moon of Saturn Helene, the consort of Simon Magus He, the French version of the name He (Roch Voisine album), a 1989 album by Roch Voisine He (song), a song by Roch Voisine He, a drame lyrique with music by Andr Messager
Hyperion: Hyperion may refer to:
Haryana: Haryana is a state in northern India. It is bordered by Punjab and Himachal Pradesh to the north, and by Rajasthan to the west and south. The river Yamuna defines its eastern border with Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Haryana also surrounds Delhi on three sides, forming the northern, western and southern borders of Delhi. Consequently, a large area of Haryana is included in the National Capital Region.
Himachal Pradesh: Himachal Pradesh is a state in north India. It is spread over 21,495 sq mi (55,673 km), and is bordered by the Indian states of Jammu and Kashmir on north, Punjab on west and south-west, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on south, Uttarakhand on south-east and by Tibet,on the east. The literal meaning of Himachal Pradesh is Region of snowy mountains. Himachal Pradesh was also known as Deva Bhumi (the land of the gods). The Aryan influence in the region dates back to the period before the Rigveda.
History of medicine: All human societies have medical beliefs that provide explanations for birth, death, and disease. Throughout history, illness has been attributed to witchcraft, demons, adverse astral influence, or the will of the gods. These ideas still retain some power, with faith healing and shrines still used in some places, although the rise of scientific medicine over the past millennium has altered or replaced many of the old beliefs.
Hamoaze: The Hamoaze is an estuarine stretch of water at the point where the tidal River Tamar, the River Tavy, and the River Lynher meet, prior to entering Plymouth Sound, England. The Hamoaze flows past Devonport Dockyard, which belongs to the Royal Navy. The presence of large numbers of small watercraft are a challenge and hazard to the warships using the naval base and dockyard.
Handheld game console: A handheld game console is a lightweight, portable electronic device with a built-in screen, games controls and speakers. Handheld game consoles are run on machines of small size allowing people to carry them and play them at any time or place. Unlike video game consoles, the controls, screen and speakers are all part of a single unit. In 1977, Mattel introduced the first handheld electronic game with the release of Auto Race.
Henry Bruce 1st Baron Aberdare: Henry Austin Bruce, 1st Baron Aberdare GCB, PC, FRS (16 April 1815 - 25 February 1895) was a British statesman who served in government during the late 19th century, most notably as Home Secretary and as Lord President of the Council.
Heinrich Abeken: Heinrich Abeken (August 19, 1809 - August 8, 1872), German theologian and Prussian Privy Legation Councillor in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Berlin, was born and raised in the city of Osnabrck as a son of a merchant, he was incited to a higher education by the example of his uncle Bernhard Rudolf Abeken. After finishing the college in Osnabrck, he moved in 1827 to visit the University of Berlin to study theology.
Hanover: Hanover or Hannover, on the river Leine, is the capital of the federal state of Lower Saxony (Niedersachsen), Germany and was once by personal union the family seat of the Hanoverian Kings of Great Britain, in their dignities as the dukes of Brunswick-Lneburg (which title was later called the Elector of Hanover at the end of the historical period known as Early Modern Europe). After the Napoleonic Wars ended, the Electorate was enlarged and made into the capital of the Kingdom of Hanover.
Halophile: Halophiles are extremophile organisms that thrive in environments with very high concentrations of salt. The name comes from Greek for "salt-loving". While the term is perhaps most often applied to some halophiles classified into the Archaea domain, there are also bacterial halophiles and some eukaryota, such as the alga Dunaliella salina. Some well-known species give off a red color from carotenoid compounds. Such species contain the photosynthetic pigment bacteriorhodopsin.
Hematite: Hematite, also spelled as hatite, is the mineral form of iron(III) oxide (Fe2O3), one of several iron oxides. Hematite crystallizes in the rhombohedral system, and it has the same crystal structure as ilmenite and corundum. Hematite and ilmenite form a complete solid solution at temperatures above 950. Hematite is a mineral, colored black to steel or silver-gray, brown to reddish brown, or red. It is mined as the main ore of iron.
Herbert Simon: Herbert Alexander Simon (June 15, 1916- February 9, 2001) was an American political scientist, economist, and psychologist, and professormost notably at Carnegie Mellon Universitywhose research ranged across the fields of cognitive psychology, computer science, public administration, economics, management, philosophy of science, sociology, and political science. With almost a thousand very highly cited publications, he is one of the most influential social scientists of the 20th century.
Holocene extinction: The Holocene extinction is the widespread, ongoing extinction of species during the present Holocene epoch. The large number of extinctions span numerous families of plants and animals including mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and arthropods; a sizeable fraction of these extinctions are occurring in the rainforests. Between 1500 and 2009 CE, 875 extinctions have been documented by the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.
Hollywood-style Lindy Hop: Hollywood-style Lindy Hop is a variety of Lindy Hop, an American vernacular dance. It is also sometimes referred to as Dean Collins or Smooth-style, but these terms also sometimes refer to different styles of Lindy Hop. Hollywood is the style seen in 1930s and 1940s movies. It was danced by Dean Collins, Jewel McGowan, Hal Takier, Jean Veloz and others. It was reconstructed from these movies in the late 1990s by Erik Robison and Sylvia Skylar. They were the first to call it "Hollywood Style".
Hausa language: Hausa is the Chadic language with the largest number of speakers, spoken as a first language by about 24 million people, and as a second language by about 15 million more.
Horse tack: Tack is a term used to describe any of the various equipment and accessories worn by horses in the course of their use as domesticated animals. Saddles, stirrups, bridles, halters, reins, bits, harnesses, martingales, and breastplates are all forms of horse tack. Equipping a horse is often referred to as tacking up.
Harrison Narcotics Tax Act: The Harrison Narcotics Tax Act was a United States federal law that regulated and taxed the production, importation, and distribution of opiates. The act was proposed by Representative Francis Burton Harrison of New York and was approved on December 17, 1914.
HSK: HSK may refer to: HSK test or Hanyu Shuiping Kaoshi, a standardized test of Mandarin Chinese Horrendous Space Kablooie, a Calvin and Hobbes reference to the Big Bang Helsingfors Skridskoklubb, a figure skating club in Finland Auxiliary cruiser or HSK Hochsauerlandkreis's license plate code
History of mathematics: The area of study known as the history of mathematics is primarily an investigation into the origin of discoveries in mathematics and, to a lesser extent, an investigation into the mathematical methods and notation of the past. Before the modern age and the worldwide spread of knowledge, written examples of new mathematical developments have come to light only in a few locales. The most ancient mathematical texts available are Plimpton 322 (Babylonian mathematics c.
Hydrogen atom: A hydrogen atom is an atom of the chemical element hydrogen. The electrically neutral atom contains a single positively-charged proton and a single negatively-charged electron bound to the nucleus by the Coulomb force. The most abundant isotope, hydrogen-1, protium, or light hydrogen, contains no neutrons; other isotopes of hydrogen, such as deuterium, contain one or more neutrons. This article primarily concerns hydrogen-1.
Hairpin fashion: A hair pin or hairpin is a long device used to hold a person's hair in place. Hairpins made of metal, ivory, bronze, carved wood, etc. were used in ancient Assyria and Egypt for securing decorated hairstyles. Such hairpins suggest, as graves show, that many were luxury objects among the Egyptians and later the Greeks, Etruscans, and Romans. Major success came in 1901 with the invention of the spiral hairpin by New Zealand inventor Ernest Godward. This was a predecessor of the hair clip.
Elagabalus: For the deity with the same name see Elagabalus (deity) Elagabalus (c. 203 - March 11, 222), also known as Heliogabalus or Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, was a Roman Emperor of the Severan dynasty who reigned from 218 to 222. Born Varius Avitus Bassianus, he was Syrian on his mother's side, the son of Julia Soaemias and Sextus Varius Marcellus, and in his early youth he served as a priest of the god El-Gabal at his hometown, Emesa.
Hz: Hz or hz may mean: Herero language Hertz, unit of frequency Hamilton Zoo, New Zealand
Hate speech: Hate speech is, outside of the law, any communication which disparages a person or a group on the basis of some characteristic such as race or sexual orientation. In law, hate speech is any speech, gesture or conduct, writing, or display which is forbidden because it may incite violence or prejudicial action against or by a protected individual or group, or because it disparages or intimidates a protected individual or group.
Henrik Ibsen: Henrik Ibsen (20 March 1828 - 23 May 1906) was a major 19th-century Norwegian playwright, theatre director, and poet. He is often referred to as "the god father" of modern drama and is one of the founders of Modernism in the theatre. His plays were considered scandalous to many of his era, when Victorian values of family life and propriety largely held sway in Europe.
Hawaiian language: The Hawaiian language is a Polynesian language that takes its name from Hawaii, the largest island in the tropical North Pacific archipelago where it developed. Hawaiian, along with English, is an official language of the state of Hawaii. King Kamehameha III established the first Hawaiian-language constitution in 1839 and 1840. For various reasons, the number of native speakers of Hawaiian gradually decreased during the period from the 1830s to the 1950s.
Homeopathy: Homeopathy (also spelled homoeopathy or homopathy) is a form of alternative medicine, first proposed by German physician Samuel Hahnemann in 1796, that attempts to treat patients with heavily diluted preparations which are claimed to cause effects similar to the symptoms presented. Homeopathic remedies are prepared by serial dilution with shaking by forceful striking, which homeopaths term "succussion," after each dilution under the assumption that this increases the effect of the treatment.
Helen Keller: Helen Adams Keller (June 27, 1880 - June 1, 1968) was an American author, political activist and lecturer. She was the first deafblind person to earn a Bachelor of Arts degree. The story of how Keller's teacher, Anne Sullivan, broke through the isolation imposed by a near complete lack of language, allowing the girl to blossom as she learned to communicate, has become known worldwide through the dramatic depictions of the play and film The Miracle Worker.
Haddocks' Eyes: Haddocks' Eyes is a poem by Lewis Carroll from Through the Looking-Glass. It is sung by The White Knight in chapter eight to a tune that he claims as his own invention, but which Alice recognizes as I give thee all, I can no more. By the time Alice heard it, she was already tired of poetry. It is a parody of "Resolution and Independence" by William Wordsworth.
Second Polish Republic: The Second Polish Republic, Second Commonwealth of Poland or interwar Poland, officially known as the Republic of Poland, was the independent Polish state that existed between the two world wars: from the creation of an independent Poland in the aftermath of World War I, to the invasion of Poland in 1939 by Nazi Germany, the Soviet Union, and the Slovak Republic, which marked the beginning of World War II.
Hoosier: Hoosier is the official demonym for a resident of the U.S. State of Indiana. Although residents of most U.S. states typically adopt a derivative of the state name, e.g. , Indianan or Indianian, natives of Indiana use these demonyms rarely if at all. The State of Indiana adopted the nickname "Hoosier State" more than 150 years ago. "Hoosiers" is also the mascot for the Indiana University athletic teams.
Horner scheme: In numerical analysis, the Horner scheme or Horner algorithm, named after William George Horner, is an algorithm for the efficient evaluation of polynomials in monomial form. Horner's method describes a manual process by which one may approximate the roots of a polynomial equation. The Horner scheme can also be viewed as a fast algorithm for dividing a polynomial by a linear polynomial with Ruffini's rule.
Hapworth 16 1924: "Hapworth 16, 1924" is the "youngest" of J. D. Salinger's Glass family stories, in the sense that the narrated events happen chronologically before those in the rest of the Glass series. It appeared in the June 19, 1965 edition of The New Yorker, and has never been reprinted. The story was the last of Salinger's works to be published in his lifetime. It is in the form of a letter from camp written by a seven-year-old Seymour Glass (the main character of "A Perfect Day for Bananafish").
Hypnotic: Hypnotic (also called soporific) drugs are a class of psychoactives whose primary function is to induce sleep and to be used in the treatment of insomnia and in surgical anesthesia. When used in anesthesia to produce and maintain unconsciousness, "sleep" is metaphorical and there are no regular sleep stages or cyclical natural states when used in anesthesia; patients rarely recover from anesthesia feeling refreshed and with renewed energy.
Hacker ethic: The hacker ethic comprises the values and philosophy that are standard in the hacker community. The early hacker culture and resulting philosophy originated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the 1950s and 1960s. The term 'hacker ethic' is attributed to journalist Steven Levy as described in his book titled ', written in 1984. The guidelines of the hacker ethic make it easy to see how computers have evolved into the personal devices we know and rely upon today.
HMS Dunraven: HMS Dunraven was a Q-Ship of the Royal Navy during World War I. On 8 August 1917, 130 miles southwest of Ushant in the Bay of Biscay, disguised as the collier Boverton and commanded by Gordon Campbell, VC, Dunraven spotted UC-71, commanded by Oberleutnant zur See Reinhold Saltzwedel. Saltzwedel believed the disguised ship was a merchant vessel. The U-boat submerged and closed with Dunraven before surfacing astern at 11:43 am and opening fire at long range.
Hebrew mythology: Hebrew mythology may refer to: pre-Judaistic Canaanite mythology Jewish mythology Messiah Aggadah Kabbalah
Hotel: A hotel is an establishment that provides paid lodging on a short-term basis. The provision of basic accommodation, in times past, consisting only of a room with a bed, a cupboard, a small table and a washstand has largely been replaced by rooms with modern facilities, including en-suite bathrooms and air conditioning or climate control.
Hugh Hefner: Hugh Marston Hefner (born April 9, 1926), sometimes known simply as Hef, is an American magazine publisher, founder and chief creative officer of Playboy Enterprises. In 2003, Arena magazine listed him second on the "50 Most Powerful People in Porn" list.
Hubris: Hubris (also hybris) means extreme haughtiness or arrogance. Hubris often indicates a loss of touch with reality and overestimating one's own competence or capabilities, especially for people in positions of power. Hubris derives the terms "act of hubris", and "hubristic".
Hafizullah Amin: Hafizullah Amin (August 1, 1929 - December 27, 1979) was the second President of Afghanistan during the period of the communist Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. Amin tried to broaden his internal base of support and to bring the interest of Pakistan and the United States in Afghan security. During the 104 days of his rule, except for one failed military rebellion, no major uprising took place. Amin also pursued the policy of Pashtunization of the country.
Heavy water: Heavy water is water containing a higher-than-normal proportion of the hydrogen isotope deuterium, either as deuterium oxide, D2O or 2O, or as deuterium protium oxide, HDO or O. Physically and chemically, it resembles water, H2O; in water, the deuterium-to-hydrogen ratio is about 156ppm,. Heavy water is water that was highly enriched in deuterium, by as much as 100% D2O.
History of science and technology: The history of science and technology (HST) is a field of history which examines how humanity's understanding of the natural world and ability to manipulate it have changed over the millennia. This academic discipline also studies the cultural, economic, and political impacts of scientific innovation. Histories of science were originally written by practicing and retired scientists, starting primarily with William Whewell, as a way to communicate the virtues of science to the public.
Hussite: The Hussites were a Christian movement following the teachings of Czech reformer Jan Hus (c. 1369-1415), who became one of the forerunners of the Protestant Reformation. This predominantly religious movement was propelled by social issues and strengthened Czech national awareness. After the Council of Constance lured Jan Huss in with a letter of indemnity and then put him to death on 6 July 1415 the Hussites fought a series of wars for their religious and political cause.
Holographic principle: The holographic principle is a property of quantum gravity and string theories which states that the description of a volume of space can be thought of as encoded on a boundary to the regionpreferably a light-like boundary like a gravitational horizon. First proposed by Gerard 't Hooft, it was given a precise string-theory interpretation by Leonard Susskind.
Hamilton Ontario: Hamilton is a port city in the Canadian province of Ontario. Conceived by George Hamilton when he purchased the Durand farm shortly after the War of 1812, Hamilton has become the centre of a densely populated and industrialized region at the west end of Lake Ontario known as the Golden Horseshoe.
Herman of Alaska: Saint Herman of Alaska (born 1756 or 1760 in Serpukhov, Russia - died December 13 or November 15, 1837 on Spruce Island, Alaska) was one of the first Eastern Orthodox missionaries to the New World, and is considered by Orthodox Christians to be the patron saint of the Americas.
Hausdorff dimension: In mathematics, the Hausdorff dimension (also known as the Hausdorff-Besicovitch dimension) is an extended non-negative real number associated to any metric space. The Hausdorff dimension generalizes the notion of the dimension of a real vector space. In particular, the Hausdorff dimension of a single point is zero, the Hausdorff dimension of a line is one, the Hausdorff dimension of the plane is two, etc. There are however many irregular sets that have noninteger Hausdorff dimension.
Heckler Koch MP5: The Heckler & Koch MP5 is a 9mm submachine gun of German design, developed in the 1960s by a team of engineers from the German small arms manufacturer Heckler & Koch GmbH (H&K) of Oberndorf am Neckar. The MP5 is currently one of the most widely used submachine guns in the world, having been adopted by numerous law enforcement agencies and special forces groups.
Ham: Ham is the thigh and rump of pork, cut from the haunch of a pig or boar. Although it may be cooked and served fresh, most ham is cured in some fashion. Cuts referred to as ham in the U.S. are also called gammon in the U.K. , South Africa, Isle of Man, and Ireland.
Henry Middleton: Henry Middleton (1717- June 13, 1784) of South Carolina was the second President of the Continental Congress from October 22, 1774, until Peyton Randolph was able to resume his duties briefly beginning on May 10, 1775. His father was Acting South Carolina Governor (1725-1730) Arthur Middleton (1681-1737). While a delegate to the Continental Congress, Middleton resigned in order to prepare for the coming war.
Heckler Koch: Heckler & Koch GmbH (H&K) is a German defense manufacturing company that produces various small arms, for example the MP5 submachine gun, G3 automatic rifle, the G36 assault rifle, the MP7 personal defense weapon, the USP series of handguns, and the high-precision PSG1 sniper rifle. All firearms made by H&K are named by a prefix and the official designation, with suffixes used for variants.
Henry Laurens: Henry Laurens (March 6, 1724 - December 8, 1792) was an American merchant and rice planter from South Carolina who became a political leader during the Revolutionary War. A delegate to the Second Continental Congress Laurens succeeded John Hancock as President of the Second Continental Congress. Laurens ran the largest slave trading house in North America. In the 1750s alone, his Charleston firm oversaw the sale of more than 8,000 enslaved Africans.
HOTOL: HOTOL, for Horizontal Take-Off and Landing, was a British air-breathing space shuttle effort by Rolls Royce and British Aerospace. Designed as a single-stage-to-orbit (SSTO) reusable winged launch vehicle, it was to be fitted with a unique air-breathing engine, the RB545 called the Swallow, to be developed by Rolls Royce.
Hammerhead shark: The hammerhead sharks are a group of sharks in the family Sphyrnidae, so named for the unusual and distinctive structure of their heads, which are flattened and laterally extended into a "hammer" shape called a "cephalofoil". Most hammerhead species are placed in the genus Sphyrna; some authorities place the winghead shark in its own genus, Eusphyra.
Hall effect: The Hall effect is the production of a voltage difference (the Hall voltage) across an electrical conductor, transverse to an electric current in the conductor and a magnetic field perpendicular to the current. Edwin Hall discovered this effect in 1879. The Hall coefficient is defined as the ratio of the induced electric field to the product of the current density and the applied magnetic field.
Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (often referred to as The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn or shortened to Huckleberry Finn or simply Huck Finn) is a novel by Mark Twain, first published in February 1885. Commonly recognized as one of the Great American Novels, the work is among the first in major American literature to be written in the vernacular, characterized by local color regionalism.
Harpsichord: A harpsichord is a musical instrument played by means of a keyboard. It produces sound by plucking a string when a key is pressed. In the narrow sense, "harpsichord" designates only the large wing-shaped instruments in which the strings are perpendicular to the keyboard. In a broader sense, "harpsichord" designates the whole family of similar plucked keyboard instruments, including the smaller virginals, muselar, and spinet. The harpsichord was widely used in Renaissance and Baroque music.
Hoover Dam: Hoover Dam, once known as Boulder Dam, is a concrete arch-gravity dam in the Black Canyon of the Colorado River, on the border between the U.S. states of Arizona and Nevada. When completed in 1936, it was both the world's largest hydroelectric power generating station and the world's largest concrete structure. It was surpassed in both these respects by the Grand Coulee Dam in 1945. It is currently the world's 38th-largest hydroelectric generating station.
Hair: Hair is a filament, mostly protein, that grows from follicles found in the dermis. The human body, apart from the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, is covered in follicles which produce thick terminal and fine vellus hair. Most common interest in hair is focused on hair growth, hair types and hair care but hair is also an important biomaterial and the hair follicle is a well studied biological organ.
Hawker Harrier: The Hawker Harrier was an experimental biplane torpedo bomber aircraft built by Hawker Aircraft to a specification issued in the 1920s for the RAF.
Hawker Siddeley Harrier: The Hawker Siddeley Harrier GR.1/GR.3 and the AV-8A Harrier are the first generation of the Harrier series, the first operational close-support and reconnaissance fighter aircraft with Vertical/Short Takeoff and Landing (V/STOL) capabilities, colloquially referred to as a "jump jet". The Harrier was the only truly successful V/STOL design of the many that arose from the 1960s. In the 1970s, the Harrier was developed into the radar-equipped BAE Sea Harrier for the Royal Navy.
Horned God: The Horned God is one of the two primary deities found in the Neopagan religion of Wicca. He is often given various names and epithets, and represents the male part of the religion's duotheistic theological system, the other part being the female Triple Goddess. In common Wiccan belief, he is associated with nature, wilderness, sexuality, hunting and the life cycle.
Herg: Georges Prosper Remi (22 May 1907 - 3 March 1983), better known by the pen name Herg, was a Belgian comics writer and artist. "Herg" is the French pronunciation of "RG", his initials reversed. His best known and most substantial work is The Adventures of Tintin, which he wrote and illustrated from 1929 until his death in 1983, which left the twenty-fourth Tintin adventure Tintin and Alph-Art unfinished. His work remains a strong influence on comics, particularly in Europe.
Haggis: Haggis is a dish containing sheep's 'pluck', minced with onion, oatmeal, suet, spices, and salt, mixed with stock, and traditionally simmered in the animal's stomach for approximately three hours. Haggis is a kind of sausage, or savoury pudding cooked in a casing of sheep's intestine, as sausages are. As the 2001 English edition of the Larousse Gastronomique puts it, "Although its description is not immediately appealing, haggis has an excellent nutty texture and delicious savoury flavour".
Hank Aaron: Henry Louis "Hank" Aaron (born February 5, 1934 in Mobile, Alabama) is a retired American baseball player whose Major League Baseball (MLB) career spanned the years 1954 through 1976. Aaron is widely considered one of the greatest baseball players of all time. In 1999, editors at The Sporting News ranked Hank Aaron fifth on their list of "Greatest Baseball Players.
Hunt the Wumpus: Hunt the Wumpus is an early computer game, based on a simple hide and seek format featuring a mysterious monster (the Wumpus) that lurks deep inside a network of rooms. It was originally a text-based game written in BASIC. It has since been ported to various programming languages and platforms including graphical versions.
Holy Grail: The Holy Grail is a sacred object figuring into literature and certain Christian traditions, most often identified with the dish, plate, or cup used by Jesus at the Last Supper and said to possess miraculous powers.
Hash: Hash may refer to: Hash symbol, #, also called "hash sign"; also known in the USA and Canada as "number sign" or "pound key" Hashish, a psychoactive drug derived from the Cannabis plant Hash (food), a coarse chunky mixture of beef and other things, e.g. corned beef hash or hash browns Hash House Harriers, a loosely-organized group of social organizations focused on running and camaraderie; also referred to as "hashing" A URL's fragment identifier hash, a Unix command.
Hearst Corporation: Hearst Communications, Inc. is a privately-held American-based media conglomerate based in the Hearst Tower in New York City, USA. Founded by William Randolph Hearst as an owner of newspapers, the company's holdings now include a wide variety of media. The Hearst family is involved in the ownership and management of the company. Hearst is one of the largest diversified communications companies in the world.
Hunter S. Thompson: Hunter Stockton Thompson (July 18, 1937 - February 20, 2005) was an American journalist and author, most famous for his roman clef Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. He is credited as the creator of Gonzo journalism, a style of reporting where reporters involve themselves in the action to such a degree that they become central figures of their stories. He is also known for his use of psychedelics, alcohol, firearms, and his iconoclastic contempt for authoritarianism.
Historicism: Historicism is a mode of thinking in which the basic significance of specific social context--e.g. , time, place, local conditions--is central; whereas the notion of fundamental generalizable immutable "laws" in the realm of sociology/social behaviour tends to be rejected. The term has developed different and divergent, though loosely related, meanings. Elements of historicism appear in the writings of Italian philosopher G. B.
High fantasy: High fantasy or epic fantasy is a subgenre of fantasy that is set in invented or parallel worlds. High fantasy originated with the writings of William Morris, George MacDonald, and Lord Dunsany, and came to fruition through the work of authors such as J. R. R. Tolkien and C. S. Lewis whose major fantasy works were published in the 1950s. High fantasy, along with sword and sorcery, has become one of the two genres most commonly associated with the general term fantasy.
Hunter College: Hunter College of the City University of New York is a senior college of the City University of New York (CUNY), located on Manhattan's Upper East Side. Originally known as the Normal College, Hunter was founded in 1870 by Irish immigrant and social reformer Thomas Hunter as a teacher-training school for young women. Today, Hunter is a coeducational liberal arts and sciences college that offers undergraduate and graduate programs in more than 100 fields.
Harry Shearer: Harry Julius Shearer (born December 23, 1943) is an American actor, comedian, writer, voice artist, musician, author and radio host. He is known for his long-running role on The Simpsons, his work on Saturday Night Live, the comedy band Spinal Tap and his radio program Le Show. Born in Los Angeles, California, Shearer began his career as a child actor, appearing in The Jack Benny Program, as well as the 1953 films Abbott and Costello Go to Mars and The Robe.
Hydraulic ram: A hydraulic ram, or hydram, is a cyclic water pump powered by hydropower. It functions as a hydraulic transformer that takes in water at one "hydraulic head" (pressure) and flow-rate, and outputs water at a higher hydraulic-head and lower flow-rate. The device utilizes the water hammer effect to develop pressure that allows a portion of the input water that powers the pump to be lifted to a point higher than where the water originally started.
Human sexual behavior: Human sexual behavior or human sexual practices or human sexual activities refers to the manner in which humans experience and express their sexuality. It encompasses a wide range of activities, such as strategies to find or attract partners, interactions between individuals, physical or emotional intimacy, and sexual contact.
Homininae: Homininae is a subfamily of Hominidae, which includes humans, gorillas and chimpanzees, and some extinct human relatives; it comprises all those, such as Australopithecus, that arose after the split from the other great apes. Until 1980, the family Hominidae contained only humans, with the great apes in the family Pongidae. Discoveries led to a revision of classification, with the great apes and humans (Homininae) united in Hominidae.
Harmonica: The harmonica, also called harp, blues harp, french harp, and mouth organ, is a free reed wind instrument which is used primarily in blues and American folk music, jazz, country music and rock and roll. It is played by blowing air into it or drawing air out by placing lips over individual holes (reed chambers) or multiple holes. The pressure caused by blowing or drawing air into the reed chambers causes a reed or multiple reeds to vibrate up and down creating sound.
Homo habilis: Homo habilis ("handy man") is a species of the genus Homo, which lived from approximately 2.3 to 1.4 million years ago at the beginning of the Pleistocene period. The discovery and description of this species is credited to both Mary and Louis Leakey, who found fossils in Tanzania, East Africa, between 1962 and 1964. Homo habilis is the earliest known species of the genus Homo. In its appearance and morphology, H. habilis is thus the least similar to modern humans of all species in the genus.
Huey Dewey and Louie: Huey, Dewey, and Louie Duck are a trio of fictional ducks who appear in animated cartoons and comic books published by the Walt Disney Company. Identical triplets, the three are Donald Duck's nephews. Huey, Dewey, and Louie were created by Ted Osborne and Al Taliaferro, and first appeared in a newspaper comic strip on October 17, 1937. Their first animated appearance was in the theatrical short Donald's Nephews, released April 15, 1938. The boys are V.I. P members of the Mickey Mouse Club.
Hack: Hack may refer to: Hack (technology), a term used in the technology and computer science fields Hack (masonry), a row of stacked unfired bricks protected from the rain Hack writer, a writer who is paid to write low-quality, quickly put-together articles or books Hack (comedy), a joke, or premise for a joke, that is considered obvious, frequently used, and/or stolen.
Hammurabi: Hammurabi (Akkadian from Amorite mmurpi, "the kinsman is a healer," from mmu, "paternal kinsman," and Rpi, "healer"; was the sixth king of Babylon from 1792 BC to 1750 middle chronology He became the first king of the Babylonian Empire following the abdication of his father, Sin-Muballit, extending Babylon's control over Mesopotamia by winning a series of wars against neighboring kingdoms.
Hops: Hops are the female flower clusters (commonly called seed cones or strobiles), of a hop species, Humulus lupulus. They are used primarily as a flavoring and stability agent in beer, to which they impart a bitter, tangy flavor, though hops are also used for various purposes in other beverages and herbal medicine. Hops were cultivated on a continuing basis around the 8th or 9th century AD in Bohemian gardens in the Hallertau district of Bavaria and other parts of Europe.
Huygens Fresnel principle: The Huygens-Fresnel principle is a method of analysis applied to problems of wave propagation (both in the far field limit and in near field diffraction). It recognizes that each point of an advancing wave front is in fact the center of a fresh disturbance and the source of a new train of waves; additionally, the advancing wave as a whole may be regarded as the sum of all the secondary waves arising from points in the medium already traversed.
Honey: Honey is a sweet food made by certain insects using nectar from flowers. The variety produced by honey bees is the one most commonly referred to and is the type of honey collected by beekeepers and consumed by humans. Honey produced by other bees and insects has distinctly different properties. Honey bees form nectar into honey by a process of regurgitation and store it as a food source in wax honeycombs inside the beehive.
Hengist and Horsa: Hengist (or Hengest) and Horsa (or Hors) are figures of British legend, which records them as the two Germanic brothers who led the Angle, Saxon, and Jutish armies that conquered the first territories of England in the 5th century AD. Hengist, through his son (who varies by source), is traditionally listed as the founder of the Kingdom of Kent.
Hero System: The Hero System (or HERO System) is a generic role-playing game system that developed from the superhero RPG Champions. It is used as the underlying mechanics of other Hero Games role-playing games such as Dark Champions, Fantasy Hero, Star Hero, and Pulp Hero. It is characterized by point-based character creation and the rigor with which it measures character abilities. It was one of the first RPG systems to forgo the use of non-cubical dice.
Humphry Davy: Sir Humphry Davy, 1st Baronet FRS MRIA (17 December 1778 - 29 May 1829) was a British chemist and inventor. He is probably best remembered today for his discoveries of several alkali and alkaline earth metals, as well as contributions to the discoveries of the elemental nature of chlorine and iodine. He invented the Davy lamp, which allowed miners to enter gassy workings.
Haematopoiesis: Haematopoiesis (or hematopoiesis in the United States; sometimes also haemopoiesis or hemopoiesis) is the formation of blood cellular components. All cellular blood components are derived from haematopoietic stem cells. In a healthy adult person, approximately 10-10 new blood cells are produced daily in order to maintain steady state levels in the peripheral circulation.
Hecate: Hecate or Hekate is a chthonic Greco-Roman goddess associated with magic, witches, ghosts, and crossroads. She is attested in poetry as early as Hesiod's Theogony. An inscription from late archaic Miletus naming her as a protector of entrances is also testimony to her presence in archaic Greek religion. Regarding the nature of her cult, it has been remarked, "she is more at home on the fringes than in the center of Greek polytheism.
Hogmanay: Hogmanay is the Scots word for the last day of the year and is synonymous with the celebration of the New Year in the Scottish manner. It is, however, normally only the start of a celebration which lasts through the night until the morning of New Year's Day (1 January) or, in some cases, 2 January which is a Scottish Bank Holiday.
Hamster: Hamsters are rodents belonging to the subfamily Cricetinae. The subfamily contains about 25 species, classified in six or seven genera. Hamsters are crepuscular. In the wild, they burrow underground in the daylight to avoid being caught by predators. Their diet contains a variety of foods, including dried food, berries, nuts, fresh fruits and vegetables.
Holy Spirit: In Christianity, the Holy Spirit (or Holy Ghost) is the Spirit of God. In mainstream (Trinitarian) Christian beliefs he is the third person of the Trinity. As part of the Godhead, the Holy Spirit is equal with God the Father and with God the Son. The Christian theology of the Holy Spirit was the last piece of Trinitarian theology to be fully developed. There is also greater diversity in Christian theology of the Spirit than there is in the theology of the Son or of the Father.
Hamiltonian quantum mechanics: In quantum mechanics, the Hamiltonian H is the operator corresponding to the total energy of the system. Its spectrum is the set of possible outcomes when one measures the total energy of a system. It is of fundamental importance in most formulations of quantum theory because of its close relation to the time-evolution of a system (see below).
Helium-3: Helium-3 (He-3) is a light, non-radioactive isotope of helium with two protons and one neutron. It is rare on Earth, and is sought for use in nuclear fusion research. The abundance of helium-3 is thought to be greater on the Moon (embedded in the upper layer of regolith by the solar wind over billions of years) and the solar system's gas giants (left over from the original solar nebula), though still low in quantity (28 ppm of lunar regolith is helium-4 and 0.01 ppm is helium-3).
Hi-hat: A hi-hat, or hihat, is a type of cymbal and stand used as a typical part of a drum kit by percussionists in R&B, hip-hop, disco, jazz, rock and roll, house, reggae and other forms of contemporary popular music.
Hydroxyl: In chemistry, hydroxyl is a compound containing an oxygen atom bound covalently with a hydrogen atom. The neutral form of this group is a hydroxyl radical. The hydroxyl anion (OH) is called hydroxide; it is a diatomic ion with a single negative electronic charge. In discussions of synthetic methods in organic chemistry the hydroxyl group (-OH) is referred to as a functional group, when it is linked to a larger organic molecule.
Warm-blooded: In biology, a warm-blooded animal species is one whose members maintain thermal homeostasis; that is, they keep their body temperature at a roughly constant level, regardless of the ambient temperature. This involves the ability to cool down or produce more body heat. Warm-blooded animals mainly control their body temperature by regulating their metabolic rates (e.g. increasing their metabolic rate as the surrounding temperature begins to decrease).
Hydrolysis: Hydrolysis is a chemical reaction during which molecules of water (H2O) are split into hydrogen cations (H) (conventionally referred to as protons) and hydroxide anions (OH) in the process of a chemical mechanism. It is the type of reaction that is used to break down certain polymers, especially those made by step-growth polymerization. Such polymer degradation is usually catalysed by either acid, e.g. , concentrated sulfuric acid (H2SO4), or alkali, e.g.
Hephaestus: Hephaestus was a Greek god whose Roman equivalent was Vulcan. His mother was Hera. He was the god of technology, blacksmiths, craftsmen, artisans, sculptors, metals, metallurgy, fire and volcanoes. Like other mythic smiths but unlike most other gods, Hephaestus was lame, which gave him a grotesque appearance in Greek eyes. He served as the blacksmith of the gods, and he was worshipped in the manufacturing and industrial centers of Greece, particularly in Athens.
Herman Charles Bosman: Herman Charles Bosman (February 3, 1905 - October 14, 1951) is the South African writer widely regarded as South Africa's greatest short story writer. He studied the works of Edgar Alan Poe and Mark Twain, and developed a style emphasizing the use of irony. His English-language works utilize primarily Afrikaner characters and point to the many contradictions of Afrikaner society in the first half of the twentieth century.
Hungarian: Hungarian may refer to: Hungary, a country in Central Europe Kingdom of Hungary, state of Hungary, existing from 1000 to 1946 Hungarian people, the ethnic group primarily associated with Hungary Hungarian language, the language spoken by Hungarian people
HAL 9000: HAL 9000 is a fictional computer in Arthur C. Clarke's Space Odyssey saga. It was ranked #13 on a list of greatest film villains of all time on the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Heroes and Villains. HAL (Heuristically programmed ALgorithmic Computer) is an artificial intelligence, the sentient on-board computer of the spaceship Discovery. HAL is usually represented only as his television camera "eyes" that can be seen throughout the Discovery spaceship.
Hummer: Hummer was a marque of trucks sold by General Motors. The HUMMER brand was not transferred to Motors Liquidation Company as part of the GM bankruptcy. Instead, this brand was retained by GM in order to investigate selling the brand. The original Hummer H1 was based on the military High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV, or Humvee). However, the Hummer H2 and the Hummer H3 were based on other, smaller civilian-market vehicles.
Howitzer: A howitzer is a type of artillery piece that is characterized by a relatively short barrel (barrel length 15 to 25 times the caliber of the gun) and the use of comparatively small explosive charges to propel projectiles at relatively high trajectories, with a steep angle of descent.
High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle: The High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV or Humvee) is a military 4WD motor vehicle created by AM General. It has largely supplanted the roles formerly served by smaller Jeeps such as the M151 1/4 ton MUTT, the M561 "Gama Goat", their M718A1 and M792 ambulance versions, the CUCV, and other light trucks. Primarily used by the United States military, it is also used by a number of other countries and organizations and in civilian adaptations.
History of science: Science is a body of empirical, theoretical, and practical knowledge about the natural world, produced by a global community of researchers making use of scientific methods, which emphasize the observation, explanation, and prediction of real world phenomena by experiment. Given the dual status of science as objective knowledge and as a human construct, good historiography of science draws on the historical methods of both intellectual history and social history.
Hemlock: The word hemlock may refer to: Hemlock, several poisonous plants in the Apiaceae family (formerly Umbelliferae): Hemlock, two species, one formerly used as a method of execution Water Hemlock (Cicuta) Hemlock water dropwort (Oenanthe crocata) Hemlock, a genus of coniferous trees
Hydrogen peroxide: Hydrogen peroxide is a very pale blue liquid, slightly more viscous than water, that appears colorless in dilute solution. It is a weak acid, has strong oxidizing properties, and is a powerful bleaching agent. It is used as a disinfectant, antiseptic, oxidizer, and in rocketry as a propellant. The oxidizing capacity of hydrogen peroxide is so strong that it is considered a highly reactive oxygen species. Hydrogen peroxide is naturally produced in organisms as a by-product of oxygen metabolism.
Hesychasm: Hesychasm is an eremitic tradition of prayer in the Eastern Orthodox Church, and some other Eastern Churches of the Byzantine Rite, practised by the Hesychast (Gr. , hesychastes). Based on Christ's injunction in the Gospel of Matthew to "go into your closet to pray", hesychasm in tradition has been the process of retiring inward by ceasing to register the senses, in order to achieve an experiential knowledge of God.
Hasdingi: The Hasdingi were the southern tribes of the Vandals, an East Germanic tribe. They lived in areas of today's southern Poland, Slovakia and Hungary. They were part of the migratory movements of the Vandals, into the Iberian peninsula and later on to North Africa. In 409 they settled as foederati in Gallaecia. Gunderic, king of the Hasdingi, lost his kingdom to king Hermeric of the Suebi after a battle against an allied force of Suebi and Romans.
Harmony Society: The Harmony Society was a Christian theosophy and pietist society founded in Iptingen, Germany, in 1785. Due to religious persecution by the Lutheran Church and the government in Wrttemberg, the Harmony Society moved to the United States on October 7, 1803, initially purchasing 3,000 acres (12 km) of land in Butler County, Pennsylvania. On February 15, 1805, they, together with about 400 followers, formally organized the Harmony Society, placing all their goods in common.
Huneric: Huneric or Honeric (died December 23 484) was King of the Vandals (477 - 484) and the oldest son of Geiseric. He dropped the imperial politics of his father and concentrated mainly on internal affairs. He was married to Eudocia, daughter of western Roman Emperor Valentinian III (419-455) and Licinia Eudoxia. She left him, probably in 472. She had one son by him, Hilderic. Huneric was a fervent adherent to Arianism.
Hedge fund: A hedge fund is an investment fund open to a limited range of investors that undertakes a wider range of investment and trading activities than long-only investment funds, and that, in general, pays a performance fee to its investment manager. Every hedge fund has its own investment strategy that determines the type of investments and the methods of investment it undertakes. Hedge funds, as a class, invest in a broad range of investments including shares, debt and commodities.
Hermes: Hermes is the great messenger of the gods in Greek mythology and additionally as a guide to the Underworld. An Olympian god, he is also the patron of boundaries and of the travelers who travel across them, of shepherds and cowherds, of the cunning of thieves and liars, of orators and wit, of literature and poets, of athletics and sports, of weights and measures, of invention, and of commerce in general.
Hydrocodone: Hydrocodone or dihydrocodeinone is a semi-synthetic opioid derived from two naturally occurring opiates, codeine and thebaine. Hydrocodone is an orally active narcotic analgesic (pain reliever) and antitussive (cough suppressant). It is commonly available in tablet, capsule, and syrup form, and is often compounded with other analgesics like paracetamol or ibuprofen.
Hashish: Hashish is a preparation of cannabis composed of the compressed stalked resin glands called trichomes, collected from the cannabis plant. It contains the same active ingredients but in higher concentrations than other parts of the plant such as the buds or the leaves. Psychoactive effects are the same as those of other cannabis preparations such as marijuana.
Hypnosis: Hypnosis is a mental state (state theory) or set of attitudes and beliefs (non-state theory) usually induced by a procedure known as a hypnotic induction, which is commonly composed of a series of preliminary instructions and suggestions. Hypnotic suggestions may be delivered by a hypnotist in the presence of the subject, or may be self-administered ("self-suggestion" or "autosuggestion"). The use of hypnotism for therapeutic purposes is referred to as "hypnotherapy".
Henry Chadwick writer: Henry Chadwick (October 5, 1824 - April 20, 1908), often called the "father of baseball," was a sportswriter, baseball statistician and historian. Born in Exeter, England, and raised on cricket, Chadwick was one of the prime movers in the rise of baseball to its unprecedented popularity at the turn of the 20th century. Chadwick moved to Brooklyn with his family at the age of 12, and became a frequent player of early ball games such as rounders.
Heather Fargo: Heather Fargo (born December 12, 1952, in Oakland, California) is a former Mayor and former City Council Member of Sacramento, California. She was sworn in as Mayor in November 2000, replacing Jimmie Yee, and served until December 2008, when she was replaced by Kevin Johnson.
Higher education: Higher education refers to a level of education that is provided at academies, universities, colleges, vocational universities, community colleges, liberal arts colleges, institutes of technology and certain other collegiate-level institutions, such as vocational schools, trade schools, and career colleges, that award academic degrees or professional certifications.
Harmonic series music: Pitched musical instruments are often based on an approximate harmonic oscillator such as a string or a column of air, which oscillates at numerous frequencies simultaneously. At these resonant frequencies, waves travel in both directions along the string or air column, reinforcing and canceling each other to form standing waves. Interaction with the surrounding air causes audible sound waves, which travel away from the instrument.
Henotheism: Henotheism (Greek hen theos "one god") is a term coined by Max Mller, to mean worshipping a single god while accepting the existence or possible existence of other deities. Mller made the term central to his criticism of Western theological and religious exceptionalism, focusing on a cultural dogma which held "monotheism" to be both fundamentally well-defined and inherently superior to differing conceptions of God.
Hasidic Judaism: Hasidic Judaism or Hasidism, from the Hebrew: -Hasidus meaning "piety", is a branch of Orthodox Judaism that promotes spirituality and joy through the popularisation of Jewish mysticism as the fundamental aspects and of the Jewish faith. The majority of Hasidic Jews are ultra-orthodox. It sought to add to required standards of ritual observance, while relaxing others where inspiration predominated.
Hedwig of Andechs: Saint Hedwig of Andechs or Saint Hedwig of Silesia was a saint, the daughter of Berthold IV, Duke of Merania and his wife, Agnes of Rochlitz. She was born at Castle Andechs, Bavaria. One of her sisters married king Andrew II of Hungary, while another was abbess at the Benedictine convent of Lutzingen in Franconia, where Hedwig received her education. At age 12, Hedwig married Henry I the Bearded of Silesia. In 1233 Henry also became Duke of Greater Poland.
Hasidim: Hasidim is the plural of Hasid (), meaning "pious" or "righteous". The word Hasid was frequently used as a term of exceptional respect in the Talmudic and early medieval periods. In the aggregate, it may refer to members of any of the following Jewish movements: Hasidic Judaism, a Ukrainian Jewish movement from the 17th century onwards Hasideans, pietists or "Jewish Puritans" of the Maccabean period Chassidei Ashkenaz, a German pietistic movement of the 12th and 13th centuries
Hardcore: Hardcore may refer to: Hardcore, also known as hardcore punk, a sub-genre of punk rock music Hardcore techno, a style of electronic music Hardcore hip hop, a sub-genre of hip hop music. Hardcore wrestling, a form of professional wrestling Hardcore pornography, an explicit form of pornography Hardcore (comics), a fictional character in the Marvel Universe Hardcore (album), a 2004 album by Daddy Freddy Hardcore (1977 film), a British comedy film Hardcore (1979 film), an American drama film
Hoosier Hysteria: Hoosier Hysteria is the state of excitement surrounding basketball in Indiana, or more specifically the Indiana high school basketball tournament. In part, the excitement stemmed from the inclusion of all tournament entrants (traditionally black and Catholic schools were not invited in the early years) into the same tournament, where a small town's David might knock off a large city's Goliath.
Henry Moseley: Henry Gwyn-Jeffreys Moseley (23 November 1887 to 10 August 1915) was an English physicist. Moseley's outstanding contribution to the science of physics was the justification from physical laws of the previous empirical and chemical concept of the atomic number. This stemmed from his development of Moseley's law in X-ray spectra. This law justified many concepts in chemistry by sorting the chemical elements of the Periodic Table of the Elements in a quite logical order based on physics.
Prince Harry of Wales: Prince Henry of Wales (Henry Charles Albert David; born 15 September 1984), commonly known as Prince Harry, is the younger son of Charles, Prince of Wales, and the late Diana, Princess of Wales, and grandson of Queen Elizabeth II. As such, he is third in the line of succession to the thrones of 16 independent Commonwealth realms, though he is resident in and most directly involved with the United Kingdom.
Harold Alexander 1st Earl Alexander of Tunis: Field Marshal Harold Rupert Leofric George Alexander, 1st Earl Alexander of Tunis KG GCB OM GCMG CSI DSO MC CD PC PC (10 December 1891 - 16 June 1969) was a British military commander and field marshal of Anglo-Irish descent who served with distinction in both world wars, and between 1946 and 1952 served as the 17th Governor General of Canada.
Hypnotherapy: Hypnotherapy is therapy that is undertaken with a subject in hypnosis. The word "hypnosis" (from the Greek hypnos, "sleep") is an abbreviation of James Braid's (1841) term "neuro-hypnotism", meaning "sleep of the nervous system". A person who is hypnotized displays certain unusual characteristics and propensities, compared with a non-hypnotized subject, most notably hyper-suggestibility, which some authorities have considered a sine qua non of hypnosis. For example, Clark L.
Hangul: Hangul or Chosongul is the native alphabet of the Korean language, as distinguished from the logographic Sino-Korean hanja system. It was created in the mid-fifteenth century, and is now the official script of both North Korea and South Korea, being co-official in the Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture of China. A project is complete to adopt Hangul as the writing system of the Austronesian Cia-Cia language. Hangul is a phonemic alphabet organized into syllabic blocks.
Hangman game: Hangman is a paper and pencil guessing game for two or more players. One player thinks of a word and the other tries to guess it by suggesting letters. The word to guess is represented by a row of dashes, giving the number of letters. If the guessing player suggests a letter which occurs in the word, the other player writes it in all its correct positions. If the suggested letter does not occur in the word, the other player draws one element of the hangman diagram as a tally mark.
Hellbender: The hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis) is a giant salamander, native to North America. which inhabits large, swiftly flowing streams with rocky bottoms. It is the monotypic species within Cryptobranchus, with two subspecies.
Harmonic mean: In mathematics, the harmonic mean (formerly sometimes called the subcontrary mean) is one of several kinds of average. Typically, it is appropriate for situations when the average of rates is desired. The harmonic mean H of the positive real numbers x1, x2, ... , xn is defined to be Equivalently, the harmonic mean is the reciprocal of the arithmetic mean of the reciprocals.
Harold Eugene Edgerton: Harold Eugene "Doc" Edgerton (April 6, 1903 - January 4, 1990) was a professor of electrical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is largely credited with transforming the stroboscope from an obscure laboratory instrument into a common device. For example; today, the electronic flash is completely associated with the field of photography.
Harry Kroto: Sir Harold (Harry) Walter Kroto, KCB, FRS (born 7 October 1939) is an English chemist and one of the three recipients to share the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. He is currently on faculty at Florida State University, which he joined in 2004; prior to that he spent a large part of his working career at the University of Sussex, where he holds an emeritus professorship.
Heimskringla: Heimskringla is the best known of the Old Norse kings' sagas. It was written in Old Norse in Iceland by the poet and historian Snorri Sturluson (1178/79-23rd sept. 1241) ca. 1230. The name Heimskringla was first used in the 17th century, derived from the first two words of one of the manuscripts (kringla heimsins - the circle of the world).
Hail: Hail is a form of solid precipitation which consists of balls or irregular lumps of ice, that are individually called hail stones. Hail stones on Earth consist mostly of water ice and measure between 5 millimetres (0.20 in) and 150 millimetres (5.9 in) in diameter, with the larger stones coming from severe thunderstorms. The METAR reporting code for hail 5 millimetres (0.20 in) or greater in diameter is GR, while smaller hailstones and graupel are coded GS.
Book of Helaman: The Book of Helaman is one of the books that make up the Book of Mormon. The book continues the history of the Nephites and the Lamanites "according to the records of Helaman, who was the son of Helaman, and also according to the records of his sons, even down to the coming of Christ" (The Book of Helaman, preface). According to footnotes, the book covers the time period between ca 52 BC and 1 BC.
Hamar: Hamar is a town and municipality in Hedmark county, Norway. It is part of the traditional region of Hedmarken. The administrative centre of the municipality is the town of Hamar. The municipality of Hamar was separated from Vang as a town and municipality of its own in 1849. Vang was merged back into Hamar on 1 January 1992. The town is located on the shores of lake Mja, Norway's largest lake, and is the principal city of Hedmark county.
Irina Krush: Irina Krush (born December 24, 1983) is an American chess player and won U.S. Women's Chess Championship in 1998 and 2007. Born in Odessa, USSR, she is widely known for her series of chess training videos, the "Krushing Attacks" series. Krush learned to play chess at age five, emigrating with her parents to Brooklyn that same year (1989). Krush attended Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn, known to be one of the top high school chess teams in the USA.
Institut des Hautes tudes Scientifiques: The Institut des Hautes udes Scientifiques is a French institute supporting advanced research in mathematics and theoretical physics. It is located in Bures-sur-Yvette just south of Paris. The IH, founded in 1958 by businessman and mathematical physicist Ln Motchane with the help of Robert Oppenheimer and Jean Dieudonn, aims to bring together top researchers in the field.
Music of India: The music of India includes multiple varieties of folk, popular, pop, classical music and R&B. India's classical music tradition, including Carnatic and Hindustani music, has a history spanning millennia and, developed over several eras, it remains fundamental to the lives of Indians today as sources of spiritual inspiration, cultural expression and pure entertainment.
Indian musical instruments: Indian musical instruments can be broadly classified into three categories, mainly classical, western and folk. See Carnatic music and Hindustani music. The instruments are further sub-classified into the type based on the science behind the same.
IRIX: IRIX is a computer operating system developed by Silicon Graphics, Inc. (SGI) to run natively on their 32- and 64-bit MIPS architecture workstations and servers. It is based on UNIX System V with BSD extensions. IRIX is the origin of the XFS file system. The current major version of IRIX is IRIX 6.5 which was released in May 1998. New minor versions of IRIX 6.5 were released every quarter until 2005; since then there have been four further minor releases.
India: India, officially the Republic of India, is a country in South Asia. It is the seventh-largest country by geographical area, the second-most populous country, and the most populous democracy in the world. Bounded by the Indian Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the west, and the Bay of Bengal on the east, India has a coastline of 7,517 kilometres (4,700 mi). It is bordered by Pakistan to the west; China, Nepal, and Bhutan to the north; and Bangladesh and Myanmar to the east.
Indo-European disambiguation: Indo-European may refer to: Indo-European languages Aryan race, a 19th century term for Indo-European speakers Proto-Indo-European language, the reconstructed common ancestor of all Indo-European languages Proto-Indo-Europeans, an ancient ethnic group speaking the Proto-Indo-European language
Iceland: Iceland is a European island country located in the North Atlantic Ocean. It has a population of about 320,000 and a total area of 103,000 km (39,769 sq mi). Its capital and largest city is Reykjavk, whose surrounding area is home to some two-thirds of the national population. Located on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, Iceland is volcanically and geologically active on a large scale; this defines the landscape.
Internet: The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks that use the standard Internet Protocol Suite (TCP/IP) to serve billions of users worldwide. It is a network of networks that consists of millions of private, public, academic, business, and government networks of local to global scope that are linked by a broad array of electronic and optical networking technologies.
Italy: Italy /tli/, officially the Italian Republic, is a country located partly on the European Continent and partly on the Italian Peninsula in Southern Europe and on the two largest islands in the Mediterranean Sea, Sicily and Sardinia. Italy shares its northern, Alpine boundary with France, Switzerland, Austria and Slovenia. The independent states of San Marino and the Vatican City are enclaves within the Italian Peninsula, and Campione d'Italia is an Italian exclave in Switzerland.
Indo-Iranian languages: The Indo-Iranian language group constitutes the easternmost extant branch of the Indo-European family of languages. It consists of three language groups: the Indo-Aryan, Iranian (Irano-Aryan) and Nuristani. The term Aryan languages is occasionally still used to refer to the Indo-Iranian languages. The speakers of the Proto-Indo-Iranian language, the hypothetical Proto-Indo-Iranians, are usually associated with the late 3rd millennium BC Andronovo/Sintashta-Petrovka culture of Central Asia.
Indriidae: The Indriidae (sometimes incorrectly spelled Indridae) are a family of strepsirrhine primates. They are medium to large sized lemurs with only four teeth in the toothcomb instead of the usual six. Indriids, like all lemurs, live exclusively on the island of Madagascar. The group was once much larger, and, in addition to the thirteen species living today, also contains eleven extinct species in six genera. Most if not all were larger animals, called 'sloth lemurs'.
Industry: There are four key industrial economic sectors: the primary sector, largely raw material extraction industries such as mining and farming; the secondary sector, involving refining, construction, and manufacturing; the tertiary sector, which deals with services and distribution of manufactured goods; and the quaternary sector, a relatively new type of knowledge industry focusing on technological research, design and development such as computer programming, and biochemistry.
Invictus: "Invictus" is a short poem by the English poet William Ernest Henley (1849-1903). It was written in 1875 and first published in 1888 in Henley's Book of Verses, where it was the fourth in a series of poems entitled Life and Death (Echoes). It originally bore no title: early printings contained only the dedication To R. T. H. B. a reference to Robert Thomas Hamilton Bruce (1846-1899), a successful Scottish flour merchant and baker who was also a literary patron.
Primary sector of the economy: The primary sector of the economy involves changing natural resources into primary products. Most products from this sector are considered raw materials for other industries. Major businesses in this sector include agriculture, agribusiness, fishing, forestry and all mining and quarrying industries.
I Robot: I, Robot is a collection of nine science fiction short stories by Isaac Asimov, first published by Gnome Press in 1950 in an edition of 5,000 copies. The stories originally appeared in the American magazines Super Science Stories and Astounding Science Fiction between 1940 and 1950. The stories are woven together as Dr. Susan Calvin tells them to a reporter (the narrator) in the 21st century.
Secondary sector of the economy: The secondary sector of the economy includes those economic sectors that create a finished, usable product: manufacturing and construction. This was the primary economic sector in America from the 1820s-1940's This sector generally takes the output of the primary sector and manufactures finished goods or where they are suitable for use by other businesses, for export, or sale to domestic consumers. This sector is often divided into light industry and heavy industry.
Tertiary sector of the economy: The tertiary sector of the economy (also known as the service sector or the service industry) is one of the three economic sectors, the others being the secondary sector and the primary sector. The general definition of the tertiary sector is producing a service instead of just an end product, in the case of the secondary sector. Sometimes an additional sector, the "quaternary sector", is defined for the sharing of information (which normally belongs to the tertiary sector).
Indictment: In the common law legal system, an indictment is a formal accusation that a person has committed a criminal offense. In those jurisdictions which retain the concept of a felony, the serious criminal offence would be a felony; those jurisdictions which have abolished the concept of a felony often substitute the concept of an indictable offence, i.e. an offence which requires an indictment.
Irish diaspora: The Irish diaspora consists of Irish emigrants and their descendants in countries such as the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, Argentina, New Zealand, Mexico, South Africa, Brazil and states of the Caribbean and continental Europe. The diaspora, maximally interpreted, contains over 80 million people, which is over thirteen times the population of the island of Ireland itself, which has just over 6 million in 2009.
Impressionist music: The impressionist movement in music was a movement in European classical music, mainly in France, that began in the late nineteenth century and continued into the middle of the twentieth century. Like its precursor in the visual arts, musical Impressionism focused on suggestion and atmosphere rather than strong emotion or the depiction of a story as in program music. Musical Impressionism occurred as a reaction to the excesses of the Romantic era.
Integer: The integers are formed by the natural numbers including 0 together with the negatives of the non-zero natural numbers (&minus;1, &minus;2, &minus;3, ...). Viewed as subset of the real numbers, they are numbers that can be written without a fractional or decimal component, and fall within the set (... &minus;2, &minus;1, 0, 1, 2, ...). For example, 65, 7, and &minus;756 are integers; 1.6 and 1 are not integers. The set of all integers is often denoted by a boldface Z, which stands for '.
Interpolation: In the mathematical subfield of numerical analysis, interpolation is a method of constructing new data points within the range of a discrete set of known data points. In engineering and science one often has a number of data points, as obtained by sampling or experimentation, and tries to construct a function which closely fits those data points. This is called curve fitting or regression analysis.
International trade: International trade is exchange of capital, goods, and services across international borders or territories. It refers to exports of goods and services by a firm to a foreign-based buyer (importer)In most countries, it represents a significant share of gross domestic product (GDP). While international trade has been present throughout much of history, its economic, social, and political importance has been on the rise in recent centuries.
Intension: In linguistics, logic, philosophy, and other fields, an intension is any property or quality connoted by a word, phrase or other symbol. In the case of a word, it is often implied by the word's definition. The term may also refer to all such intensions collectively, although the term comprehension is technically more correct for this. The meaning of a word can be thought of as the bond between the idea or thing the word refers to and the word itself.
Izabella Scorupco: Izabella Dorota Scorupco (born June 4, 1970 in Biaystok, Poland, original last name was Skorupko) is a Polish-Swedish actress who is most famous for appearing as Bond girl Natalya Simonova in the 1995 James Bond film GoldenEye. She is the first Polish-born actress to play a Bond girl. Scorupco was born in Biaystok, Poland to Lech and Magdalena. When she was only one year old her parents split up and Izabella came to live with her mother. In 1978 the two moved to Bredg in Stockholm, Sweden.
Republic of Ireland: Ireland, described as the Republic of Ireland, is a country in northwestern Europe. The modern sovereign state occupies about five-sixths of the island of Ireland, which was partitioned into two jurisdictions on 3 May 1921. It is a parliamentary democracy and a republic.
Indonesia: The Republic of Indonesia is a country in Southeast Asia and Oceania. Indonesia comprises 17,508 islands. With a population of around 230 million people, it is the world's fourth most populous country, and has the world's largest population of Muslims. Indonesia is a republic, with an elected legislature and president. The nation's capital city is Jakarta. The country shares land borders with Papua New Guinea, East Timor, and Malaysia.
Indian Ocean: The Indian Ocean is the third largest of the world's oceanic divisions, covering about 20% of the water on the Earth's surface. It is bounded on the north by South Asia (by five countries of the Indian subcontinent, after which it is named); on the west by Africa; on the east by Indochina, the Sunda Islands, and Australia; and on the south by the Southern Ocean (or, depending on definition, by Antarctica).
Isaac Asimov: Isaac Asimov, was an American author and professor of biochemistry at Boston University, best known for his works of science fiction and for his popular science books. Asimov was one of the most prolific writers of all time, having written or edited about 500 books and over 9,000 letters and postcards. His works have been published in nine of the ten major categories of the Dewey Decimal System . Isaac Asimov is widely considered a master of the science-fiction genre and, along with Robert A.
Iqaluit: Iqaluit is the territorial capital and the largest community of the Canadian territory of Nunavut. Iqaluit is located on the south coast of Baffin Island at the head of Frobisher Bay. As of the 2006 census the population was 6,184, an increase of 18.1 percent from the 2001 census; it has the lowest population of any capital city in Canada. Inhabitants of Iqaluit are called Iqalummiut . Prior to 1987 the community was named Frobisher Bay.
Island: An island or isle is any piece of land that is surrounded by water. Very small islands such as emergent land features on atolls are called islets. A key or cay is another name for a small island or islet. An island in a river or lake may be called an eyot, /. t/. There are two main types of islands: continental islands and oceanic islands. There are also artificial islands. A grouping of geographically and/or geologically related islands is called an archipelago.
Ich bin ein Berliner: "Ich bin ein Berliner","I am a Berliner", is a quotation from a June 26, 1963 speech by U.S. President John F. Kennedy in West Berlin. He was underlining the support of the United States for West Germany 22 months after the Soviet-supported Communist state of East Germany erected the Berlin Wall as a barrier to prevent movement between East and West. The speech is considered one of Kennedy's best, and a notable moment of the Cold War.
Iowa: Iowa is a state located in the Midwestern region of the United States, an area often referred to as the "American Heartland. " It derives its name from the Ioway people, one of the many American Indian tribes that occupied the state at the time of European exploration. Iowa was a part of the French colony of New France. After the Louisiana Purchase, settlers laid the foundation for an agriculture-based economy in the heart of the Corn Belt.
Troll Internet: In Internet slang, a troll is someone who posts inflammatory, extraneous, or off-topic messages in an online community, such as an online discussion forum, chat room or blog, with the primary intent of provoking other users into an emotional response
INRI: INRI is an acronym of the Latin inscription (Iesus Nazarenus, Rex Iudaeorum), which translates to English as "Jesus the Nazarene, King of the Jews. " The Greek equivalent of this phrase, (Iesous ho Nazoraios ho Basileus ton Ioudaion), appears in the New Testament of the Christian Bible in the Gospel of John.
Iao Valley: ao Valley is a lush, stream-cut valley in West Maui, Hawaii located 5 kilometres (3.107 mi) west of Wailuku. Because of its natural beauty and historical significance, it has become a popular tourist location.
Demographics of India: The demographics of India are remarkably diverse. India's population of approximately 1.17 billion people (estimate for July, 2009) consists of more than one-sixth of the world's population. India has more than two thousand s, and every major religion is represented, as are four major families of languages as well as a language isolate. Further complexity is lent by the great variation that occurs across this population on social parameters such as income and education.
Communications in India: The Indian telecommunication industry, with about 525 million mobile phone connections (Dec 2009), is the third largest telecommunication network in the world and the second largest in terms of number of wireless connections. The Indian telecom industry is one of the fastest growing in the world and is projected that India will have 'billion plus' mobile users by 2015. Projection by several leading global consultancies is that Indias telecom network will overtake Chinas in the next 10 years.
Politics of India: Politics of India take place in a framework of a federal parliamentary multi-party representative democratic republic modeled after the British Westminster System. The Prime Minister of India is the head of government, while the President of India is the formal head of state and holds substantial reserve powers, placing him or her in approximately the same position as the British monarch. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Transport in India: Transport in the Republic of India is an important part of the nation's economy. With a land area of 3,287,240 km (1,269,210 sq mi), and an estimated population of 1,028,737,436, transport in India is both a necessity as well as a convenience. Since the economic liberalisation of the 1990s, development of infrastructure within the country has progressed at a rapid pace, and today there is a wide variety of modes of transport by land, water and air.
Foreign relations of India: The Republic of India is the world's most-populous electoral democracy and has one of the fastest economic growth rates in the world. With the world's second largest armed forces, and fourth largest economy by purchasing power parity, India is considered to be a global power, and an emerging superpower. It is India's growing international influence that increasingly gives it a more prominent voice in global affairs.
Indian religions: Indian religions are the related religious traditions that originated in the Indian subcontinent, namely Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism, and Sikhism, inclusive of their sub-schools and various related traditions. They form a subgroup of the larger classes of "Eastern religions" and also Indo-European religions . Indian religions have similarities in core beliefs, modes of worship, and associated practices, mainly due to their common history of origin and mutual influence.
Infusion disambiguation: An infusion is a method of preparing herbs by placing them in oil or water.
Italian: Italian may refer to anything of, from, or related to the country of Italy.
Interrogatories: In law, interrogatories (also known as requests for further information) are a formal set of written questions propounded by one litigant and required to be answered by an adversary, in order to clarify matters of evidence and help to determine in advance what facts will be presented at any trial in the case.
List of infectious diseases: List of human infectious diseases arranged by name.
Geography of India: The geography of India describes the physical features of India, a country in South Asia that lies entirely on the Indian Plate in the northern portion of the Indo-Australian Plate. The country lies to the north of the equator between 84' and 376' north latitude and 687' and 9725' east longitude. It is the seventh-largest country in the world, with a total land area of 3,287,263 square kilometres (1,269,219 sq mi).
Idaho: Idaho is a state in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States of America. The state's largest city and capital is Boise. Residents are called "Idahoans. " Idaho was admitted to the Union on July 3, 1890 as the 43rd state. Idaho is a mostly mountainous state, with an area larger than all of New England. It is landlocked, surrounded by the states of Washington, Oregon, Nevada, Utah, Wyoming, Montana and the Canadian Province of British Columbia.
 smet n n: Mustafa smet n (24 September 1884 - 25 December 1973) was a Turkish Army General, Prime Minister and the second President of Turkey. In 1938, the Republican People's Party gave him the title of "Milli ef" (National Chief).
Inorganic chemistry: Inorganic chemistry is the branch of chemistry concerned with the properties and behavior of inorganic compounds. This field covers all chemical compounds except the myriad organic compounds (carbon based compounds, usually containing C-H bonds), which are the subjects of organic chemistry. The distinction between the two disciplines is far from absolute, and there is much overlap, most importantly in the sub-discipline of organometallic chemistry.
Insert filmmaking: In film, an insert is a shot of part of a scene as filmed from a different angle and/or focal length from the master shot. Inserts cover action already covered in the master shot, but emphasize a different aspect of that action due to the different framing. An insert is different from a cutaway in that the cutaway is of action not covered in the master shot. There are more exact terms to use when the new, inserted shot is another view of actors: close-up, head shot, knee shot, two shot.
Intel Corporation: Intel Corporation is the inventor of the x86 series of microprocessors, the processors found in most personal computers. The company is the world's largest semiconductor chip maker, based on revenue. Intel was founded on July 18, 1968, as Integrated Electronics Corporation (though a common misconception is that "Intel" is from the word intelligence) and is based in Santa Clara, California, USA.
Ingmar Bergman: Ernst Ingmar Bergman (14 July 1918 - 30 July 2007) was a Swedish director, writer and producer for film, stage and television. His influential body of work often dealt with themes such as bleakness and despair, as well as comedy and hope, in his cinematic exploration of the human condition.
Isaac Newton: Sir Isaac Newton FRS (4 January 1643 - 31 March 1727) was an English physicist, mathematician, astronomer, natural philosopher, alchemist, and theologian who is considered by many scholars and members of the general public to be one of the most influential men in human history.
History of Indonesia: Indonesia is an archipelagic country of 17,508 islands (6,000 inhabited) stretching along the equator in South East Asia. The country's strategic sea-lane position fostered inter-island and international trade; trade has since fundamentally shaped Indonesian history. The area of Indonesia is populated by peoples of various migrations, creating a diversity of cultures, ethnicities, and languages.
Geography of Indonesia: Indonesia is an archipelagic island country in Southeast Asia, lying between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. It is in a strategic location astride or along major sea lanes from Indian Ocean to Pacific Ocean. The country's variations in culture have been shaped- although not specifically determined- by centuries of complex interactions with the physical environment.
Demographics of Indonesia: Indonesia's 238 million people make it the world's fourth-most populous state. The island of Java is the world's most populated island and one of the most densely populated areas in the world, with more than 130 million people living in an area the size of Greece. Indonesia includes numerous related but distinct cultural and linguistic groups.
Immanuel Kant: Immanuel Kant (22 April 1724 - 12 February 1804) was an 18th-century German philosopher from the Prussian city of Kigsberg. Kant was the last influential philosopher of modern Europe in the classic sequence of the theory of knowledge during the Enlightenment beginning with thinkers John Locke, George Berkeley, and David Hume. Kant created a new widespread perspective in philosophy which has continued to influence philosophy through to the 21st century.
Communications in Indonesia: Indonesia has had a complex history of communications due to its spread over an extended archipelago - the importance on non-electronic LETS in the past has given away to a considerable infrastructure of telecommunications in the contemporary Indonesia.
Economy of Indonesia: Indonesia has the largest economy in Southeast Asia, is one of the emerging market economies of the world, and also the member of G-20 major economies.. It has a market-based economy in which the government plays a significant role by owning more than 164 state-owned enterprises and administers prices on several basic goods, including fuel, rice, and electricity.
Politics of Indonesia: The politics of Indonesia takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Indonesia is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two People's Representative Councils. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Transport in Indonesia: Indonesia's transport system has been shaped over time by the economic resource base of an archipelago with thousands of islands, and the distribution of its more than 200 million people highly concentrated on a single island which is Java. All transport modes play a role in the countrys transport system and are generally complementary rather than competitive. Road transport is predominant, with a total system length of 370,500 km in 2003.
Foreign relations of Indonesia: Since independence, Indonesian foreign relations have adhered to a "free and active" foreign policy, seeking to play a role in regional affairs commensurate with its size and location but avoiding involvement in conflicts among major powers. Indonesian foreign policy under the "New Order" government of President Suharto moved away from the stridently anti-Western, anti-American posturing that characterized the latter part of the Sukarno era.
List of islands of Indonesia: This is a list of islands of Indonesia. Indonesia comprises more than 17,000 islands according to estimates made by the Government of Indonesia, with 922 of those permanently inhabited. The country extends from adjacent the Malay Peninsula in its west and into Melanesia in its east. According to a 2002 survey by National Institute of Aeronautics and Space (LAPAN), Indonesia has 18,306 islands. According to the CIA factbook there are 17,508 islands.
Indonesian National Armed Forces: The Indonesian National Armed Forces in 2009 comprises approximately 432,129 personnel including the Army (TNI-AD), Navy (TNI-AL) including the Indonesian Marine Corps (Korps Marinir) and the Air Force (TNI-AU). The Indonesian Army was formed during the Indonesian National Revolution, when it undertook a guerrilla war along with informal militia.
History of Iraq: Iraq, known in Classical Antiquity as Mesopotamia, was home to some of the oldest civilizations in the world, with a cultural history of over 10,000 years. hence its common epithet, the Cradle of Civilization. Mesopotamia, as part of the larger Fertile Crescent, was a significant part of the Ancient Near East throughout the Bronze Age and the Iron Age.
Demographics of Iraq: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Iraq, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The 2009 IMF population estimate of Iraq is 31,234,000.
Economy of Iraq: Iraq's economy is dominated by the petroleum sector, which has traditionally provided about 95% of foreign exchange earnings. In the 1980s, financial problems caused by massive expenditures in the eight-year war with Iran and damage to oil export facilities by Iran led the government to implement austerity measures, borrow heavily, and later reschedule foreign debt payments; Iraq suffered economic losses of at least $80 billion from the war.
Politics of Iraq: The politics of Iraq takes place in a framework of a more or less federal parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Iraq is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Council of Representatives. This includes the social relations involving authority or power in Iraq.
Iran: Iran, officially the Islamic Republic of Iran is a country in Western Asia. The name Iran has been in use natively since the Sassanian era and came into use in the Western world in 1935, before which the country was widely known as Persia. Both Persia and Iran are used interchangeably in cultural contexts; however, Iran is the name used officially in political contexts. The name Iran is a cognate of Aryan, and means "Land of the Aryans".
Geography of Iraq: The geography of Iraq is diverse and falls into four main regions: the desert (west of the Euphrates River), Upper Mesopotamia (between the upper Tigris and Euphrates rivers), the northern highlands of Iraqi Kurdistan, and Lower Mesopotamia, the alluvial plain at the head of the Persian Gulf. The mountains in the northeast are an extension of the alpine system that runs eastward from the Balkans through southern Turkey, northern Iraq, Iran, and Afghanistan, eventually reaching the Himalayas.
Foreign relations of Iraq: Since 1980, the foreign relations of Iraq were influenced by a number of controversial decisions by the Saddam Hussein administration. Hussein had good relations with the Soviet Union and a number of western countries such as France and Germany, who provided him with advanced weapons systems. He also developed a sane relation with the United States, who supported him during the Iran-Iraq war.
Transport in Iraq: total: 2,032 km standard gauge: 2,032 km 1,435 mm (4 ft 8+2 in) For more than two decades there have been plans for building a metro system in Baghdad. It is possible that part of the tunnels have been built, but that they are now used militarily for sheltering, hiding and escaping purposes. U.N. inspectors have heard of the tunnels for years, but have not found their entrances. map In November, 2008, an overground service dubbed the Baghdad Metro began service.
Telecommunications in the Republic of Ireland: Telecommunications in the Republic of Ireland, including postal services run by An Post, are regulated to a large extent by the Commission for Communications Regulation (ComReg), the Minister for Communications, Energy & Natural Resources has overall responsibility for national policy and regulation. All of Ireland's communications infrastructure is now digital but progress in broadband technology has been stagnant since 2006.
Politics of the Republic of Ireland: The Republic of Ireland is a parliamentary representative democratic republic. While there are a number of political parties in the state, the political landscape is dominated by Fianna Fl and Fine Gael, historically opposed and competing entities, though both occupy the traditional centre ground. The state is a member of the European Union. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Demographics of the Republic of Ireland: Ireland has, throughout most of its history, had a relatively small population; until the 19th century this was comparable to other regions of similar area in Europe. Ireland experienced a major population boom in the 18th and early 19th centuries, as did the rest of Europe as a result of the Agricultural and Industrial revolutions, and at the time had comparable population densities to Britain and Western Europe.
Demographics of Israel: The State of Israel had population of approximately 7,465,500 inhabitants as of September 2009. 75.5% of them were Jewish (about 5,634,300 individuals), 20.3% were Arabs (About 1,513,200 inhabitants), while the remaining 4.2% (about 318,000 individuals) were defined as "others" (family members of Jewish immigrants whom were not registered at the Interior Ministry as Jews, non-Arab Christians, non-Arab Muslims and residents whom do not have a religious classification).
Transport in Ireland: Most of the transport system in Ireland is in public hands, either side of the Irish border. The Irish road network has evolved separately in the two jurisdictions Ireland is divided up into, while the Irish rail network was mostly created prior to the partition of Ireland. In the Republic of Ireland, the Minister for Transport, acting through the Department of Transport, is responsible for the State's road network, rail network, public transport, airports and several other areas.
Foreign relations of the Republic of Ireland: The foreign relations of Ireland are substantially influenced by its membership of the European Union, although bilateral relations with the United States and United Kingdom are also important to the country. It is one of the group of smaller nations in the EU, and has traditionally followed a non-aligned foreign policy. Ireland tends towards independence in foreign policy, thus it is not a member of NATO and has a longstanding policy of military neutrality.
Israeli Declaration of Independence: The Israeli Declaration of Independence, made on 14 May 1948, the day the British Mandate expired, was the official announcement that the new Jewish state named the State of Israel had been formally established in parts of what was known as the British Mandate of Palestine and on land where, in antiquity, the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah had once been.
Economy of Israel: The economy of Israel is a diversified market economy with substantial state ownership and a rapidly developing high-tech sector. Poor in natural resources, Israel depends on imports of petroleum, coal, food, uncut diamonds, other production inputs, and military equipment. In May 2007, Israel was invited to join the OECD. The country's GDP in 2006 reached $195 billion according to the International Monetary Fund or $179 billion according to the World Bank.
Demographics of Italy: Families: 23,907,410 (58,802,902 Italians in a familiar status, 2.5 Italians per family) *Most populated comune (residents) Rome Least populated comune (residents) Morterone (LC) 33 Greatest human density (residents per km) Portici (NA) 13,032.1 Greatest comune territory (km) Rome (RM) 1,285.30 Smallest comune territory (km) Fiera di Primiero (TN) 0.15
Politics of Italy: The politics of Italy take place in a framework of a parliamentary, democratic republic, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised collectively by the Council of Ministers, which is led by the President of the Council, in jargon referred to as "premier", "primo ministro" or "prime minister" in English. Legislative power is vested in the two houses of parliament primarily, and secondarily on the Council of Ministers.
Telecommunications in Italy: Telephones - main lines in use: 20.031 million (2008) Telephones - mobile cellular: 88.58 million (2008) Telephone system: modern, well-developed, fast; fully automated telephone, telex, and data services domestic: high-capacity cable and microwave radio relay trunks international: satellite earth stations - 3 Intelsat (with a total of 5 antennas - 3 for Atlantic Ocean and 2 for Indian Ocean), 1 Inmarsat (Atlantic Ocean region), and NA Eutelsat; 21 submarine cables.
Geography of Italy: Italy is located in southern Europe and comprises the long, boot-shaped Italian Peninsula, the land between the peninsula and the Alps, and a number of islands including Sicily and Sardinia. Its total area is 301,230 km, of which 294,020 km is land and 7,210 km is water. Italy borders with Switzerland (740 km), France (488 km), Austria (430 km) and Slovenia (232 km).
Economy of Italy: The economy of Italy was in 2008 the seventh-largest economy in the world and the fourth-largest in Europe, according to the International Monetary Fund. Italy belongs to the Group of Eight (G8) industrialized nations; it is a member of the European Union and OECD. The country is divided into a developed industrial north dominated by large private companies and an agricultural, state-assisted south.
Transport in Italy: Transport in Italy
Military of Italy: The Italian armed forces are under the command of the Italian Supreme Defense Council, presided over by the President of the Italian Republic. The total number of military personnel is approximately 187,000 active personnel Plus 111,000 gendarmerie . Italy has the seventh highest military expenditure in the world.
Foreign relations of Italy: This article describes the foreign relations of Italy.
Ice-T: Tracy Marrow (born February 16, 1958), better known by his stage name Ice-T, is an American rapper and actor. He was born in Newark, New Jersey and moved to Los Angeles, California. After graduating from high school he served in the United States Army for four years. He began his career as a rapper in the 1980s and was signed to Sire Records in 1987, when he released his debut album Rhyme Pays. The next year, he founded record label Rhyme Syndicate and released another album, Power.
Iron Age: In archaeology, the Iron Age is the prehistoric period in any area during which cutting tools and weapons were mainly made of iron or steel. The adoption of this material coincided with other changes in society, including differing agricultural practices, religious beliefs and artistic styles. The Iron Age is the last principal period in the three-age system for classifying prehistoric societies, preceded by the Bronze Age and the Stone Age.
Italian language: Italian (or lingua italiana) is a Romance language spoken by about 60 million people in Italy, and by another 10 million Italian descendants in the world, making it spoken by a total of 70 million native speakers. It is also spoken by an additional 125 million people as a foreign language. In Switzerland, Italian is one of four official languages, spoken mainly in the Swiss cantons of Grigioni and Ticino.
EFnet: EFnet or Eris Free network is a major IRC network, with over 50,000 users. It is the modern-day descendant of the original IRC network. IRC clients can connect to EFnet via irc. efnet. org which will connect to an EFnet IRC server at random, or clients may wish to connect to a geographically closer server.
Geography of Israel: The geography of Israel is diverse, with desert conditions in the south and snow-capped mountains in the north. Israel is located at 3130N 3445E; / ;31.5 34.75; / 31.5; 34.75 at the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea in western Asia. It is bounded to the north by Lebanon, the northeast by Syria, the east by Jordan and the West Bank, the southwest by Egypt with this border also being the border between Asia and Africa.
Undernet: The Undernet is the second-largest publicly-monitored Internet Relay Chat (IRC) network circa 2007, with about 20 client servers serving 120,000 users at any given time. IRC clients can connect to Undernet via the global round robin irc. undernet. org, the region-specific round robins us. undernet. org and eu. undernet. org, or a specific server from the Undernet server list.
BitchX: BitchX is a free IRC client and has been considered to be the most popular ircII-based IRC client. The initial implementation, written by "Trench" and "HappyCrappy", was a script for the IrcII chat client. It was converted to a program on its own right by panasync (Colten Edwards). BitchX 1.1 final was released in 2004. It is written in C, and is a console application. A graphical interface is also available, which uses the GTK+ toolkit.
MIRC: mIRC is an Internet Relay Chat client for Microsoft Windows, created in 1995 and developed by Khaled Mardam-Bey. Although it is a fully functional chat utility, its integrated scripting language makes it extensible and versatile. mIRC has been downloaded over twenty-three million times from CNET's www. download. com service. Nielsen//NetRatings also ranked mIRC among the top ten most popular Internet applications in 2003.
DALnet: DALnet is a Internet Relay Chat (IRC) network that is currently populated by a stable population of around 30,000 users (neither growing nor shrinking appreciably) in about 18,000 channels, with 40 servers making up the network. DALnet is accessible by connecting with an IRC client to an active DALnet server on ports 6660 through 6669 and 7000. The generic round-robin address is irc. dal. net.
XChat: XChat, commonly written X-Chat or xchat, is a popular Internet Relay Chat (IRC) client. It is available for Unix-like systems, Microsoft Windows (with additional features), Mac OS X (X-Chat Aqua), and for other X Window System-based systems. It has a choice of a tabbed document interface or tree interface, support for multiple servers and is highly configurable. Both command line and graphical versions are available.
Internet Relay Chat takeover: An IRC channel takeover is an acquisition of IRC channel operator status by someone other than the channel's owner. It has largely been eliminated due to the increased use of services on IRC networks.
Internet Relay Chat channel operator: An IRC channel operator (commonly shortened to op) is a user that moderates an IRC channel on a given IRC network. They are responsible for maintaining the modes of the channel, the banlist, and moderating any unwanted activity. IRC channel operators should not be confused with IRC operators, who enforce network, rather than channel, rules.
Intellectual property: Intellectual property (IP) is a term referring to a number of distinct types of legal monopolies over creations of the mind, both artistic and commercial, and the corresponding fields of law. Under intellectual property law, owners are granted certain exclusive rights to a variety of intangible assets, such as musical, literary, and artistic works; discoveries and inventions; and words, phrases, symbols, and designs.
Infinitesimal calculus: Infinitesimal calculus was independently invented by both Leibniz and Newton in the 1660s, drawing on the work of such mathematicians as Barrow and Descartes. It consisted of differential calculus and integral calculus, used for the techniques of differentiation and integration respectively. The use of infinitesimal quantities in early calculus was not proven to be rigorous, and was fiercely criticized by a number of authors, most notably Michel Rolle and Bishop Berkeley.
Irssi: Irssi is an IRC client program originally written by Timo Sirainen, and released under the terms of the GNU General Public License in Jan 1999. It is written in the C programming language and in normal operation uses a text-mode user interface. Irssi was written primarily to run on Unix-like operating systems but also runs under Microsoft Windows, using Cygwin. Irssi can also be compiled and run under Windows natively, but doing so adds additional work to access many of its useful features.
Great Famine Ireland: The Great Famine (the Bad Life) was a period of mass starvation, disease and emigration in Ireland between 1845 and 1852 during which the island's population dropped by 20 to 25 percent. Approximately one million people died and a million more emigrated from Ireland. The proximate cause of famine was a potato disease commonly known as potato blight.
Italic languages: The Italic subfamily is a member of the Indo-European language family. It includes the Romance languages derived from Latin, and a number of extinct languages of the Italian Peninsula, including Umbrian, Oscan, Faliscan, and Latin itself. In the past various definitions of "Italic" have prevailed.
Internet Relay Chat: Internet Relay Chat (IRC) is a form of real-time Internet text messaging or synchronous conferencing. It is mainly designed for group communication in discussion forums, called channels, but also allows one-to-one communication via private message as well as chat and data transfers via Direct Client-to-Client.
Isle of Man: The Isle of Man, otherwise known simply as Mann, is a self-governing British Crown Dependency, located in the Irish Sea between the islands of Great Britain and Ireland. The head of state is Queen Elizabeth II, who holds the title of Lord of Mann. The Lord of Mann is represented by a Lieutenant Governor. The island is not part of the United Kingdom but its foreign relations, defence, and ultimate good governance are the responsibility of the Government of the United Kingdom.
Irish Republican Army: The Irish Republican Army (IRA) was an Irish republican revolutionary military organisation. It was descended from the Irish Volunteers, an organisation established on 25 November 1913 that staged the Easter Rising in April 1916. In 1919, the Irish Republic that had been proclaimed during the Easter Rising was formally established by an elected assembly,and the Irish Volunteers were recognised by Dl reann as its legitimate army.
Ideogram: An ideogram or ideograph (from Greek idea "idea" + grafo "to write") is a graphic symbol that represents an idea or concept. Some ideograms are comprehensible only by familiarity with prior convention; others convey their meaning through pictorial resemblance to a physical object, and thus may also be referred to as pictograms.
IEEE 802.15: IEEE 802.15 is the 15 working group of the IEEE 802 and specializes in Wireless PAN (Personal Area Network) standards. It includes seven task groups (numbered from 1 to 7):
IEEE 802.11: IEEE 802.11 is a set of standards carrying out wireless local area network (WLAN) computer communication in the 2.4, 3.6 and 5 GHz frequency bands. They are created and maintained by the IEEE LAN/MAN Standards Committee.
Iron: Iron is a metallic chemical element with the symbol Fe and atomic number 26. Iron is a group 8 and period 4 element and is therefore classified as a transition metal. Iron and iron alloys are by far the most common metals and the most common ferromagnetic materials in everyday use. Fresh iron surfaces are lustrous and silvery-grey in color, but oxidize in air to form a red or brown coating of ferric oxide or rust.
Irn-Bru: Irn-bru is a popular carbonated soft drink produced in Cumbernauld, Scotland where it has been made by A.G. Barr of Glasgow since moving out of their original Dennistoun factory in the mid 90s and at a second manufacturing site in Mansfield, England. In addition to being sold throughout the United Kingdom, Barr's Irn-Bru is also available in many key markets throughout the world and can usually be purchased where there is a significant community of people from its native Scotland.
Internet standard: In computer network engineering, an Internet Standard (STD) is a normative specification of a technology or methodology applicable to the Internet. Internet Standards are created and published by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).
ITU-T: The Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) coordinates standards for telecommunications on behalf of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and is based in Geneva, Switzerland. The standardization work of ITU dates back to 1865, with the birth of the International Telegraph Union.
Indian: Indian may refer to: Associated with India Indian, described by demographics of India A person belonging to one of the or ethnic groups of South Asia Indian, non-resident Indian or a person of Indian origin Indian subcontinent, previously known as Greater India or simply as India prior to the partition of India Associated with America First Nations of Canada Indigenous peoples of the Americas Native Americans in the United States West Indians, associated with the Caribbean
IEEE 802: File:Text document with red question mark. svg This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please improve this article by introducing more precise citations where appropriate. IEEE 802 refers to a family of IEEE standards dealing with local area networks and metropolitan area networks. More specifically, the IEEE 802 standards are restricted to networks carrying variable-size packets.
ISOC: ISOC is an abbreviation which may refer to: Internet Society, an international organization that promotes Internet use and access Internal Security Operations Command, a unit of the Thai military devoted to national security issues In Service Open Challenge, a Walt Disney World lifeguarding competition Islamic Society, an Islamic-based group
Internalization: Internalization has different definitions depending on the field that the term is used in. Internalization is the opposite of externalization.
Ionic: Ionic or Ionian may refer to: In ancient Greece: Ionians, a people, one of the three great divisions of the ancient Greek people Ionia, an ancient region in western Anatolia, in which the Ionian settlers established some colonies.
IKEA: IKEA is a privately held, international home products retailer that sells flat pack furniture, accessories, and bathroom and kitchen items in their retail stores around the world. The company, which pioneered flat-pack design furniture at affordable prices, is now the world's largest furniture retailer. IKEA was founded in 1943 by 17-year-old Ingvar Kamprad in Sweden. Currently, the company is owned by a Dutch-registered foundation controlled by the Kamprad family.
Indium: Indium is a chemical element with chemical symbol In and atomic number 49. This rare, soft, malleable and easily fusible post-transition metal is chemically similar to aluminium or gallium but more closely resembles zinc (zinc ores are also the primary source of this metal). Indium's current primary application is to form transparent electrodes from indium tin oxide in liquid crystal displays and touchscreens, and this use largely determines its global mining production.
Iodine: Iodine (from Greek: iodes meaning violet, is a chemical element that has the symbol I and the atomic number 53. Chemically, iodine is the second least reactive of the halogens, and the second most electropositive halogen, trailing behind astatine in both of these categories. However, the element does not occur in the free state in nature. As with all other halogens, when freed from its compounds iodine forms diatomic molecules .
Iridium: Iridium is the chemical element with atomic number 77, and is represented by the symbol Ir. A very hard, brittle, silvery-white transition metal of the platinum family, iridium is the second densest element and is the most corrosion-resistant metal, even at temperatures as high as 2000 . Although only certain molten salts and halogens are corrosive to solid iridium, finely divided iridium dust is much more reactive and can even be flammable.
Inspector Morse: Detective Chief Inspector Endeavour Morse is a fictional character in a series of thirteen detective novels by British author Colin Dexter, as well as the 33 episode television series produced by Central Independent Television from 1987-2000, in which he was portrayed by John Thaw. Morse is a senior CID (Criminal Investigation Department) officer with the Thames Valley Police in Oxford, England.
History of the Isle of Man: The Isle of Man became separated from Britain and Ireland by about 8000 BC. It appears that colonisation took place by sea sometime before 6500 BC. The island has been visited by various raiders and trading peoples over the years. After being settled by people from Ireland in the first millennium, the Isle of Man was subject first to Christianity and then to raids by Vikings from Norway.
International Phonetic Alphabet: The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) is a system of phonetic notation based primarily on the Latin alphabet, devised by the International Phonetic Association as a standardized representation of the sounds of spoken language. The IPA is used by foreign language students and teachers, linguists, speech pathologists and therapists, singers, actors, lexicographers, conlangers and translators.
Demographics of the Isle of Man: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Isle of Man, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Economy of the Isle of Man: Offshore banking, manufacturing, and tourism form key sectors of the economy of the Isle of Man, a British Crown dependency in the Irish Sea. The government's policy of offering incentives to high-technology companies and financial institutions to locate on the Island has expanded employment opportunities in high-income industries. As a result, agriculture and fishing, once the mainstays of the economy, now make declining contributions to the Island's Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Geography of the Isle of Man: The Isle of Man is an island in the Irish Sea, between Great Britain and Ireland in Western Europe, with a population of over 75,000. It is a British Crown dependency. It has a small islet, the Calf of Man, to its south. It is located at 5415N 430W; / ;54.25 4.5; / 54.25; -4.5.
Communications in the Isle of Man: The Isle of Man benefits from an extremely modern and extensive communications infrastructure, which underpins the main sectors of the Island's economy.
Politics of the Isle of Man: The government of the Isle of Man is a parliamentary representative democracy. As a Crown Dependency, it is subordinate to the government of the United Kingdom, which rarely intervenes in the domestic affairs of the isle. The Monarch of the United Kingdom is also The Queen, Lord of Mann, and is the head of state of the Isle of Man.
Transport in the Isle of Man: There are a number of transport services around the Isle of Man, Mostly consisting of paved roads, public transport, rail services, ports and an airport.
Information explosion: The information explosion is the rapid increase in the amount of published information and the effects of this abundance of data. As the amount of available data grows, the problem of managing the information becomes more difficult, which can lead to information overload. The Online Oxford English Dictionary indicates use of the phrase in a March 1964 New Statesman article.
Information theory: Information theory is a branch of applied mathematics and electrical engineering involving the quantification of information. Historically, information theory was developed by Claude E. Shannon to find fundamental limits on compressing and reliably storing and communicating data.
Inn: Inns are generally establishments or buildings where travelers can seek lodging and, usually, food and drink. They are typically located in the country or along a highway.
Inch: An inch is the name of a unit of length in a number of different systems, including Imperial units, and United States customary units. There are 36 inches in a yard and 12 inches in a foot. A corresponding unit of area is the square inch and a corresponding unit of volume is the cubic inch.
International Olympiad in Informatics: The International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI) is an annual computer science competition for secondary school students. The first IOI was held in 1989 in Pravetz, Bulgaria. The contest consists of two days computer programming, solving problems of an algorithmic nature. Students compete on an individual basis, with up to four students competing from each participating country (with around 81 countries in 2004).
Iota: Iota (Yota/Jota) the ninth letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals it has a value of 10. It was derived from the Phoenician letter Yodh . Letters that arose from this letter include the Roman I and J and the Cyrillic (, ), Yi (, ), Je (, ), and iotified letters. Iota represents . In ancient Greek it occurred in both long [i] and short [i] versions, but this distinction has been lost in Modern Greek.
Erectile dysfunction: Erectile dysfunction (ED, "male impotence") is a sexual dysfunction characterized by the inability to develop or maintain an erection of the penis sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance. An erection occurs as a hydraulic effect due to blood entering and being retained in sponge-like bodies within the penis. The process is most often initiated as a result of sexual arousal, when signals are transmitted from the brain to nerves in the pelvis.
Identity and change: The relationship between identity and change in the philosophical field of metaphysics seems, at first glance, deceptively simple, and belies the complexity of the issues involved. This article explores "the problem of change and identity".
Infocom: Infocom was a software company, based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, that produced numerous works of interactive fiction. They also produced one notable business application, a relational database called Cornerstone. Infocom was founded on June 22, 1979 by MIT staff and students led by Dave Lebling, Marc Blank, Albert Vezza, and Joel Berez and lasted as an independent company until 1986 when it was bought by Activision.
Iran Contra affair: The Iran-Contra affair was a political scandal in the United States which came to light in November 1986, during the Reagan administration, in which senior US figures agreed to facilitate the sale of arms to Iran, the subject of an arms embargo, to secure the release of hostages and to fund Nicaraguan contras. It began as an operation to improve U.S. -Iranian relations, where Israel would ship weapons to a relatively moderate, politically influential group of Iranians; the U.S.
IEEE 802.3: IEEE 802.3 is a collection of IEEE standards defining the Physical Layer and Data Link Layer's media access control (MAC) sublayer of wired Ethernet. This is generally a LAN technology with some WAN applications. Physical connections are made between nodes and/or infrastructure devices by various types of copper or fiber cable. 802.3 is a technology that supports the IEEE 802.1 network architecture.
Ice hockey: Ice hockey (frequently simply called hockey in countries where it is the most popular form of hockey) is a team sport played on ice, in which skaters use sticks to direct a puck into the opposing team's goal. It is a fast-paced physical sport. Ice hockey is most popular in areas that are sufficiently cold for natural reliable seasonal ice cover, such as Canada, the northern United States, the Nordic countries, Russia, the Baltic States, the Czech Republic, and Slovakia.
Interactive fiction: Interactive fiction, often abbreviated IF, describes software simulating environments in which players use text commands to control characters and influence the environment. Works in this form can be understood as literary narratives and as video games. In common usage, the term refers to text adventures, a type of adventure game where the entire interface is "text-only".
Integer computer science: In computer science, the term integer is used to refer to a data type which represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers. These are also known as integral data types.
Infectious disease: An infectious disease is a clinically evident illness resulting from the presence of pathogenic microbial agents, including pathogenic viruses, pathogenic bacteria, fungi, protozoa, multicellular parasites, and aberrant proteins known as prions. These pathogens are able to cause disease in animals and/or plants.
Internal combustion engine: The internal combustion engine is an engine in which the combustion of a fuel occurs with an oxidizer (usually air) in a combustion chamber. In an internal combustion engine the expansion of the high temperature and pressure gases, which are produced by the combustion, directly applies force to a movable component of the engine, such as the pistons or turbine blades and by moving it over a distance, generate useful mechanical energy.
Icon: An icon (from Greek eikn "image") is a religious work of art, most commonly a painting, from Eastern Orthodox Christianity and Catholicism. More broadly the term is used in a wide number of contexts for an image, picture, or representation; it is a sign or likeness that stands for an object by signifying or representing it either concretely or by analogy, as in semiotics; by extension, icon is also used, particularly in modern culture, in the general sense of symbol - i.e.
Indian massacre: In the history of the European colonization of North America, the term "Indian massacre" was often used to describe either mass killings of Europeans by indigenous people of the North American continent (Indians) or mass killings of indigenous people by the Europeans .
Interquartile range: In descriptive statistics, the interquartile range (IQR), also called the midspread or middle fifty, is a measure of statistical dispersion, being equal to the difference between the third and first quartiles. Unlike the (total) range, the interquartile range is a robust statistic, having a breakdown point of 25%, and is thus often preferred to the total range. The IQR is used to build box plots, simple graphical representations of a probability distribution.
Icon programming language: Icon is a very high-level programming language featuring goal directed execution and many facilities for managing strings and textual patterns. It is related to SNOBOL, a string processing language. Icon is not object-oriented, but an object-oriented extension called Idol was developed in 1996 which eventually became Unicon.
Irreducible fraction: An irreducible fraction (or fraction in lowest terms or reduced form) is a vulgar fraction in which the numerator and denominator are smaller than those in any other equivalent vulgar fraction. It can be shown that a fraction b is irreducible if and only if a and b are coprime, that is, if a and b have a greatest common divisor of 1.
Isomorphism class: An isomorphism class is a collection of mathematical objects isomorphic with a certain mathematical object. Isomorphism classes are often defined if the exact identity of the elements of the set is considered irrelevant, and the properties of the structure of the mathematical object are studied. Examples of this are ordinals and graphs.
Indiana Jones: Dr. Henry Walton "Indiana" Jones, Jr. is a fictional adventurer, OSS agent, professor of archaeology, and the protagonist of the Indiana Jones franchise. George Lucas created the character in homage to the action heroes of 1930s film serials. The character first appeared in the 1981 film Raiders of the Lost Ark, to be followed by Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom in 1984, The Last Crusade in 1989, The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles from 1992 to 1996, and Kingdom of the Crystal Skull in 2008.
Islamic calendar: The Islamic calendar or Muslim calendar or Hijri calendar is a lunar calendar based on 12 lunar months in a year of 354 or 355 days, used to date events in many Muslim countries (concurrently with the Gregorian calendar), and used by Muslims everywhere to determine the proper day on which to celebrate Islamic holy days and festivals. The first year was the year during which the emigration of the Islamic prophet Muhammad from Mecca to Medina, known as the Hijra, occurred.
Isomorphism: In abstract algebra, an isomorphism is a bijective map f such that both f and its inverse f are homomorphisms, i.e. , structure-preserving mappings. In the more general setting of category theory, an isomorphism is a morphism f: X Y in a category for which there exists an "inverse" f: Y X, with the property that both ff = idX and f f = idY. Informally, an isomorphism is a kind of mapping between objects, which shows a relationship between two properties or operations.
Infinite descending chain: Given a set S with a partial order , an infinite descending chain is a chain V, that is, a subset of S upon which defines a total order, such that V has no least element, that is, an element m such that for all elements n in V it holds that m n. As an example, in the set of integers, the chain &minus;1, &minus;2, &minus;3, ... is an infinite descending chain, but there exists no infinite descending chain on the natural numbers, as every chain of natural numbers has a minimal element.
Intergovernmental organization: An intergovernmental organization, sometimes rendered as an international governmental organization and both abbreviated as IGO, is an organization comprised primarily of sovereign states (referred to as member states), or of other intergovernmental organizations.
Public international law: Public international law concerns the structure and conduct of sovereign states, analogous entities, such as the Holy See, and intergovernmental organizations. To a lesser degree, international law also may affect multinational corporations and individuals, an impact increasingly evolving beyond domestic legal interpretation and enforcement.
International Telecommunication Union: The International Telecommunication Union is the eldest organization in the UN family still in existence. It was founded as the International Telegraph Union in Paris on 17 May 1865 and is today the leading United Nations agency for information and communication technology issues, and the global focal point for governments and the private sector in developing networks and services.
Internet Message Access Protocol: The Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) is one of the two most prevalent Internet standard protocols for e-mail retrieval, the other being the Post Office Protocol (POP). Virtually all modern e-mail clients and mail servers support both protocols as a means of transferring e-mail messages from a server.
Inertial frame of reference: In physics, an inertial frame of reference (also inertial reference frame or inertial frame) is a frame of reference which describes time homogeneously and space homogeneously, isotropically, and in a time independent manner. This allows motion and interactions to be described without the presence of fictitious forces.
IRS disambiguation: IRS commonly may mean:
Interstellar travel: Interstellar space travel is unmanned or manned travel between stars. The concept of interstellar travel in starships is a staple in science fiction. Interstellar travel is tremendously more difficult than interplanetary travel. Intergalactic travel, the travel between different galaxies, is even more difficult. Many scientific papers have been published about related concepts.
Indo-European languages: The Indo-European languages are a family (or phylum) of several hundred related languages and dialects, including most major languages of Europe, languages of Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan and India, and historically also predominant in Anatolia and Central Asia.
Ian Murdock: Ian Murdock is the founder of the Debian Linux distribution and Progeny Linux Systems, a company providing services based on commercial distributions of operating systems built over the Linux kernel and distributed under a free software license such as the GNU General Public License (GPL). He wrote the Debian Manifesto in 1993 while a student at Purdue University, where he earned his bachelor's degree in computer science in 1996.
Interior Gateway Routing Protocol: Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (IGRP) is a distance vector interior routing protocol (IGP) invented by Cisco. It is used by routers to exchange routing data within an autonomous system. IGRP is a proprietary protocol. IGRP was created in part to overcome the limitations of RIP (maximum hop count of only 15, and a single routing metric) when used within large networks.
Idol worship: Idol worship may refer to: Worship of a cult image, an object venerated as the representation as a deity Idolatry, a grave sin as defined by most Abrahamic religions
Io: Io or io or i.o. may refer to: Io (mythology), daughter of Inachus in Greek mythology, and lover of Zeus Industrial and Organizational Psychology, a field of psychology that studies work, academic, and other organizational issues.
Inner product space: In mathematics, an inner product space is a vector space with the additional structure called an inner product. This additional structure associates each pair of vectors in the space with a scalar quantity known as the inner product of the vectors. Inner products allow the rigorous introduction of intuitive geometrical notions such as the length of a vector or the angle between two vectors. They also provide the means of defining orthogonality between vectors (zero inner product).
Iain Banks: Iain Banks (born on 16 February 1954 in Dunfermline, Fife) is a Scottish writer. He writes mainstream fiction under Iain Banks, and science fiction as Iain M. Banks, including the initial of his adopted middle name Menzies. In 2008, The Times named Banks in their list of "The 50 greatest British writers since 1945".
Isotropy: Isotropy is uniformity in all directions. Precise definitions depend on the subject area. The word is made up from Greek iso (equal) and tropos (direction). Exceptions, or inequalities, are frequently indicated by the prefix an, hence anisotropy. Anisotropy is also used to describe situations where properties vary systematically, dependent on direction.
International Mathematical Union: The International Mathematical Union (the IMU) is an international non-governmental organization devoted to international cooperation in the field of mathematics. It is a member of the International Council for Science (ICSU) and supports the International Congress of Mathematicians. Its members are national mathematics organizations in 65 countries. The IMU was established in 1919, but dissolved in 1936 and reestablished in 1951. The president of the Union is Lzl Lovz.
International Council for Science: The International Council for Science (ICSU), formerly called the International Council of Scientific Unions, was founded in 1931 as an international non-governmental organization devoted to international co-operation in the advancement of science. Its members are national scientific bodies, and international scientific unions, including the International Mathematical Union, the International Astronomical Union and the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry.
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry: The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry is a international federation of National Adhering Organizations that represents chemists in individual countries. It was established in 1919 as the successor of the International Congress of Applied Chemistry for the advancement of chemistry. Its members, the National Adhering Organizations, can be national chemistry societies, national academies of science, or other bodies representing chemists.
Incunable: Incunable, or sometimes incunabulum, plural incunabula or incunables, is a book, or even a single sheet of text, that was printed - not handwritten - before the year 1501 in Europe. Incunable is the Anglicized (singular) form of "incunabula", Latin for "swaddling clothes" or "cradle" which can refer to "the earliest stages or first traces in the development of anything.
International Hydrographic Organization: The International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) was originally established in 1921 as the International Hydrographic Bureau (IHB). The present name was adopted in 1970 as a result of a revised international agreement among member nations. However, the former name International Hydrographic Bureau was retained for the IHO's administrative body of three Directors and a small staff at the organization's headquarters in Monaco.
Illinois: Illinois /en-us-Illinois. oggl/ -i-, the 21st state admitted to the United States of America, is the most populous and demographically diverse Midwestern state and the fifth most populous state in the nation. With Chicago in the northeast, small industrial cities and great agricultural productivity in central and western Illinois, and natural resources like coal, timber, and petroleum in the south, Illinois has a broad economic base.
Iowa State University: Iowa State University of Science and Technology, more commonly known as Iowa State University (ISU), is a public land-grant and space-grant research university located in Ames, Iowa, United States. Iowa State is currently ranked by U.S. News & World Report as among the top 50 public universities and engineering schools in the United States.
IBM mainframe: IBM mainframes, though perceived as synonymous with mainframe computers in general due to their marketshare, are now technically and specifically IBM's line of business computers that can all trace their design evolution to the IBM System/360.
International Astronomical Union: The International Astronomical Union (IAU) is a collection of professional astronomers, at the Ph.D. level and beyond, active in professional research and education in astronomy. Headquartered in Paris, France, it acts as the internationally recognized authority for assigning designations to celestial bodies and any surface features on them, and is a member of the International Council for Science (ICSU).
ICC: ICC is an initialism, which may refer to:
Incubus disambiguation: An incubus is a male demon that has sexual intercourse with sleeping women.
International Criminal Court: The International Criminal Court is a permanent tribunal to prosecute individuals for genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and the crime of aggression (although it cannot currently exercise jurisdiction over the crime of aggression). The court came into being on 1 July 2002 the date its founding treaty, the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, entered into force and it can only prosecute crimes committed on or after that date.
Intermediate value theorem: In mathematical analysis, the intermediate value theorem states that for each value between the least upper bound and greatest lower bound of the image of a continuous function there is a corresponding point in its domain that the function maps to that value.
Incremental reading: Incremental reading is a method for learning and retaining information from reading that might otherwise be forgotten. It is particularly targeted to people who are trying to learn a large amount of information at once, particularly if that information is varied. Incremental reading is based on psychological principles of long term memory storage and retrieval, in particular the spacing effect.
Iberian Peninsula: The Iberian Peninsula, or Iberia, is located in the extreme southwest of Europe and includes modern-day states Portugal, Spain, Andorra and Gibraltar and a very small area of France. It is the westernmost of the three major southern European peninsulasthe Iberian, Italian, and Balkan peninsulas. It is bordered on the southeast and east by the Mediterranean Sea, and on the north, west and southwest by the Atlantic Ocean.
Iran Iraq War: The Iran-Iraq War, also known as the Imposed War ( , Jang-e-tahml) and Holy Defense ( , Def'-e-moghaddas) in Iran, and Saddm's Qdisiyyah ( , Qdisiyyat addm) in Iraq, was a war between the armed forces of Iraq and Iran lasting from September 1980 to August 1988.
Implicit repetition: In learning, implicit repetition is unintentional repetition. For example, an explicit repetition is when we review the material before an exam. An implicit repetition is when we suddenly recall some fact on the way to school. We remember our name or events from childhood via implicit repetition. This means we do not need to explicitly sit down to a textbook and review those events to be sure they do not get forgotten.
Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur: The Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (known as IIT Kanpur or IITK) is one of the Indian Institutes of Technology, set up in industrial city of Kanpur in 1959 and is currently celebrating its Golden Jubilee. IIT Kanpur has grown into one of the top technological institutes in India, primarily focused on research in engineering and science, and the teaching of undergraduates. IIT Kanpur has a sprawling campus spread over an area of approx. 4.3 square km, just north-west of the city.
Intelligence quotient: An intelligence quotient, or IQ, is a score derived from one of several different standardized tests designed to assess intelligence. The term "IQ", from the German Intelligenz-Quotient, was devised by the German psychologist William Stern in 1912 as a proposed method of scoring early modern children's intelligence tests such as those developed by Alfred Binet and Thdore Simon in the early 20th Century.
Inductor: An inductor or a reactor is a passive electrical component that can store energy in a magnetic field created by the electric current passing through it. An inductor's ability to store magnetic energy is measured by its inductance, in units of henries. Typically an inductor is a conducting wire shaped as a coil, the loops helping to create a strong magnetic field inside the coil due to Faraday's Law of Induction.
Insulin: Insulin is a hormone that has profound effects on metabolism. Insulin causes cells in the liver, muscle, and fat tissue to take up glucose from the blood, storing it as glycogen in the liver and muscle, and stopping use of fat as an energy source. When insulin is absent (or low), glucose is not taken up by body cells, and the body begins to use fat as an energy source, for example, by transfer of lipids from adipose tissue to the liver for mobilization as an energy source.
ISO 3166: ISO 3166 is a standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), and defines codes for the names of countries, dependent territories, and special areas of geographical interest, and their principal subdivisions. The official name of the standard is Codes for the representation of names of countries and their subdivisions.
Insulin pump: The insulin pump is a medical device used for the administration of insulin in the treatment of diabetes mellitus, also known as continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion therapy. The device includes: the pump itself (including controls, processing module, and batteries) a disposable reservoir for insulin (inside the pump) a disposable infusion set, including a cannula for subcutaneous insertion (under the skin) and a tubing system to interface the insulin reservoir to the cannula.
Intensive insulinotherapy: Intensive insulinotherapy is a therapeutic regimen for diabetes mellitus treatment. This newer approach contrasts with conventional insulinotherapy. Rather than minimize the number of insulin injections per day (a technique which demands a rigid schedule for food and activities), the intensive approach favors flexible meal times with variable carbohydrate as well as flexible physical activities.
Ice Age film: Ice Age is a 2002 American computer-animated film created by Blue Sky Studios and released by 20th Century Fox in 2002. It was directed by Carlos Saldanha and Chris Wedge from a story by Michael J. Wilson. The story follows three Paleolithical mammals attempting to return a lost human baby to its parents. The film was originally to be directed by Don Bluth and Gary Goldman, and produced in 2D by Fox Animation Studios, but the rise of CGI animation and the failure of Titan A.E.
Inverse function: In mathematics, if is a function from a set A to a set B, then an inverse function for is a function from B to A, with the property that a round trip from A to B to A (or from B to A to B) returns each element of the initial set to itself. Thus, if an input x into the function produces an output y, then inputting y into the inverse function (read f inverse, not to be confused with exponentiation) produces the output x.
Interwiki links: Interwiki links is a facility for creating links to the many wiki wiki webs on the World Wide Web. Users avoid pasting in entire URLs (as they would for regular web pages) and instead use a shorthand similar to links within the same wiki (intrawiki links). Unlike domain names on the Internet, there is no globally defined list of interwiki prefixes, so owners of a wiki must define a mapping appropriate to their needs.
Ibanez: Ibanez is a Japanese guitar brand owned by Hoshino Gakki. Based in Nagoya, Aichi, Japan, Hoshino Gakki were one of the first Japanese musical instrument companies to gain a significant foothold in import guitar sales in the United States and Europe.
Inertia: Inertia is the resistance of any physical object to a change in its state of motion. It is represented numerically by an object's mass. The principle of inertia is one of the fundamental principles of classical physics which are used to describe the motion of matter and how it is affected by applied forces. Inertia comes from the Latin word, "iners", meaning idle, or lazy.
Incest: Incest is any sexual activity between close relatives (often within the immediate family) irrespective of the ages of the participants and irrespective of their consent, that is illegal, socially taboo or contrary to a religious norm. The type of sexual activity and the nature of the relationship between people that constitutes a breach of law or social taboo vary with culture and jurisdiction.
Industrial Revolution: The Industrial Revolution was a period from the 18th to the 19th century where major changes in agriculture, manufacturing, mining, and transport had a profound effect on the socioeconomic and cultural conditions starting in the United Kingdom, then subsequently spreading throughout Europe, North America, and eventually the world. The onset of the Industrial Revolution marked a major turning point in human history; almost every aspect of daily life was eventually influenced in some way.
International Court of Justice: The International Court of Justice is the primary judicial organ of the United Nations. It is based in the Peace Palace in The Hague, Netherlands. Its main functions are to settle legal disputes submitted to it by states and to give advisory opinions on legal questions submitted to it by duly authorized international organs, agencies, and the UN General Assembly. The ICJ should not be confused with the International Criminal Court, which potentially also has "global" jurisdiction.
IP address: An Internet Protocol (IP) address is a numerical label that is assigned to devices participating in a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication between its nodes. An IP address serves two principal functions: host or network interface identification and location addressing. Its role has been characterized as follows: "A name indicates what we seek. An address indicates where it is. A route indicates how to get there.
International Standard Book Number: The International Standard Book Number (ISBN) is a unique numeric commercial book identifier based upon the 9-digit Standard Book Numbering (SBN) code created by Gordon Foster, now Emeritus Professor of Statistics at Trinity College, Dublin, for the booksellers and stationers W.H. Smith and others in 1966. The 10-digit ISBN format was developed by the International Organization for Standardization and was published in 1970 as international standard ISO 2108.
If and only if: Logical symbolsrepresenting iff. In logic and related fields such as mathematics and philosophy, if and only if (shortened iff) is a biconditional logical connective between statements. In that it is biconditional, the connective can be likened to the standard material conditional ("if") combined with its reverse ("only if"); hence the name. The result is that the truth of either one of the connected statements requires the truth of the other, i.e.
List of Italian dishes: These dishes are representative of Italian cuisine.
International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling: The International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling is an international environmental agreement signed in 1946 in order to "provide for the proper conservation of whale stocks and thus make possible the orderly development of the whaling industry". It governs the commercial, scientific, and aboriginal subsistence whaling practices of fifty-nine member nations. It was signed by 15 nations in Washington, D.C. on December 2, 1946 and took effect on November 10, 1948.
Isaac Ambrose: Isaac Ambrose (1604 - January 20, 1663/1664) was an English Puritan divine, the son of Richard Ambrose, vicar of Ormskirk, and was probably descended from the Ambroses of Lowick in Furness, a well-known Roman Catholic family. He entered Brasenose College, Oxford, in 1621, in his seventeenth year. Having graduated B.A. in 1624 and been ordained, he received in 1627 the little cure of Castleton in Derbyshire.
IP: File:Wiktionary-logo-en. svg Look up ip in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. IP is the usual abbreviation for Internet Protocol. It is also a common abbreviation for different things in different fields. IP may also refer to:
International Organization for Standardization: The International Organization for Standardization (Organisation internationale de normalisation), widely known as ISO, is an international-standard-setting body composed of representatives from various national standards organizations. Founded on 23 February 1947, the organization promulgates worldwide proprietary industrial and commercial standards. It has its headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.
Irish traditional music session: Irish traditional music sessions are mostly-informal gatherings at which people play Irish traditional music. The Irish language word for "session" is seisin. This article discusses tune-playing, although "session" can also refer to a singing session or a mixed session (tunes and songs). The "Field Guide to the Irish Music Session" defines a session as: ...
Italo Calvino: Italo Calvino (15 October 1923 - 19 September 1985) was an Italian journalist and writer of short stories and novels. His best known works include the Our Ancestors trilogy (1952-1959), the Cosmicomics collection of short stories (1965), and the novels Invisible Cities (1972) and If on a winter's night a traveler (1979). Lionised in Britain and America, he was the most-translated contemporary Italian writer at the time of his death, and a noted contender for the Nobel Prize for Literature.
Intercontinental ballistic missile: An Intercontinental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) is a long-range (greater than 5,500 km or 3,500 miles) ballistic missile typically designed for nuclear weapons delivery, that is, delivering one or more nuclear warheads. Due to their great range and firepower, in an all-out nuclear war, land-based ICBMs and submarines would carry most of the destructive force, with nuclear-armed bombers having the remainder.
Individualist anarchism: Individualist anarchism refers to several traditions of thought within the anarchist movement that emphasize the individual and their will over any kinds of external determinants such as groups, society, traditions, and ideological systems. Individualist anarchism is not a single philosophy but refers to a group of individualistic philosophies that sometimes are in conflict.
Ionic bond: An ionic bond is a type of chemical bond that involves a metal and a nonmetal ion through electrostatic attraction. In short, it is a bond formed by the attraction between two oppositely charged ions. The metal donates one or more electrons, forming a positively charged ion or cation with a stable electron configuration. These electrons then enter the non metal, causing it to form a negatively charged ion or anion which also has a stable electron configuration.
Immune system: An immune system is a system of biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against disease by identifying and killing pathogens and tumor cells. It detects a wide variety of agents, from viruses to parasitic worms, and needs to distinguish them from the organism's own healthy cells and tissues in order to function properly.
Immunology: Immunology is a broad branch of biomedical science that covers the study of all aspects of the immune system in all organisms. It deals with, among other things, the physiological functioning of the immune system in states of both health and disease; malfunctions of the immune system in immunological disorders; the physical, chemical and physiological characteristics of the components of the immune system in vitro, in situ, and in vivo.
Ice: Ice is a solid phase, usually crystalline, of a non-metallic substance that is liquid or gas at room temperature, such as water, carbon dioxide ice, ammonia ice, or methane ice. However, the predominant use of the term ice is for water ice, technically restricted to one of the 15 known crystalline phases of water. In non-scientific contexts, the term usually means ice Ih, which is known to be the most abundant of these solid phases.
International Tropical Timber Agreement 1983: The International Tropical Timber Agreement (ITTA, 1983) is an agreement to provide an effective framework for cooperation between tropical timber producers and consumers and to encourage the development of national policies aimed at sustainable utilization and conservation of tropical forests and their genetic resources. Opened for signature - November 18, 1983 Entered into force - April 1, 1985; this agreement expired when the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994, went into force.
International Tropical Timber Agreement 1994: International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994 (ITTA, 1994) was drafted to ensure that by the year 2000 exports of tropical timber originated from sustainably managed sources and to establish a fund to assist tropical timber producers in obtaining the resources necessary to reach this objective. The agreement was opened for signature on January 26, 1994, and entered into force on January 1, 1997. It replaced the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983.
Identity element: In mathematics, an identity element (or neutral element) is a special type of element of a set with respect to a binary operation on that set. It leaves other elements unchanged when combined with them. This is used for groups and related concepts. The term identity element is often shortened to identity (as will be done in this article) when there is no possibility of confusion. Let (S,*) be a set S with a binary operation * on it (known as a magma).
Instrumental: An instrumental is a musical composition or recording without lyrics or any other sort of vocal music; all of the music is produced by musical instruments. This term is used when referring to popular music rather than to other musical genres such as European classical music. In commercial music, instrumental tracks are sometimes renditions of a corresponding release that features vocals, but may also be compositions originally conceived without vocals.
Industrial archaeology of Dartmoor: The industrial archaeology of Dartmoor covers a number of the industries which have, over the ages, occurred on Dartmoor, and the remaining evidence surrounding them. Currently only a few industries are economically significant, yet all three will inevitably leave their own traces on the moor: china clay mining, farming and tourism. A good general guide to the commercial activities on Dartmoor at the end of the 19th century is William Crossing's The Dartmoor Worker.
Icosahedron: In geometry, an icosahedron is a regular polyhedron with 20 identical equilateral triangular faces, 30 edges and 12 vertices. It is one of five Platonic solids. It has five triangular faces meeting at each vertex. It can be represented by its vertex figure as 3.3.3.3.3 or 3, and also by Schlli symbol (3,5). It is the dual of the dodecahedron, which is represented by (5,3), having three pentagonal faces around each vertex.
Idempotence: Idempotence describes the property of operations in mathematics and computer science that means that multiple applications of the operation do not change the result. The concept of idempotence arises in a number of places in abstract algebra (in particular, in the theory of projectors and closure operators) and functional programming (in which it is connected to the property of referential transparency).
Ithaca New York: The city of Ithaca,, sits on the southern shore of Cayuga Lake, in Central New York, USA. It is best known for being home to Cornell University, an Ivy League school with almost 20,000 students (most of them studying on Cornells Ithaca campus). Ithaca College is located just south of the city in the town of Ithaca, adding to Ithacas college town focus and atmosphere.
Interstellar cloud: Interstellar cloud is the generic name given to an accumulation of gas, plasma and dust in our and other galaxies. Put differently, an interstellar cloud is a denser-than-average region of the interstellar medium. Depending on the density, size and temperature of a given cloud, the hydrogen in it can be neutral, ionized (ie. a plasma), or molecular. Neutral and ionized clouds are sometimes also called diffuse clouds, while molecular clouds are sometimes also referred to as dense clouds.
Ithaca Hours: The Ithaca HOUR is a local currency used in Ithaca, New York and is the oldest and largest local currency system in the United States that is still operating. It has inspired other similar systems in Madison, Wisconsin, Corvallis, Oregon, and a proposed system in the Lehigh Valley, Pennsylvania. One Ithaca HOUR is valued at US$10 and is generally recommended to be used as payment for one hour's work, although the rate is negotiable.
Imhotep: Imhotep (sometimes spelled Immutef, Im-hotep, or Ii-em-Hotep; called Imuthes by the Greeks), fl. 27th century BC (2650-2600 BC) (Egyptian ii-m-tp *j-im-atp meaning "the one who comes in, with peace") was an Egyptian polymath, who served under the Third Dynasty king, Djoser, as chancellor to the pharaoh and high priest of the sun god Ra at Heliopolis.
Ivy League: The Ivy League is an athletic conference comprising eight private institutions of higher education in the Northeastern United States. The term is most commonly used to refer to those eight schools considered as a group. The term also has connotations of academic excellence, selectivity in admissions, and social elitism.
Isidore of Miletus: Isidore of Miletus ( ,in Greek) was one of the two Greek architects who designed the church of Hagia Sophia in Constantinople (what is today Istanbul in Turkey). The Emperor Justinian I decided to rebuild the 4th century basilica in Constantinople which was destroyed during the Nika riots of 532. He employed Isidore of Miletus along with Anthemius of Tralles.
Iktinos: Iktinos (in Latin Ictinus) was an architect active in the mid 5th century BC. Ancient sources identify Iktinos and Kallikrates as co-architects of the Parthenon. Pausanias identifies Iktinos as architect of the Temple of Apollo at Bassae. That temple was Doric on the exterior, Ionic on the interior, and incorporated a Corinthian column, the earliest known, at the center rear of the cella.
International Labour Organization: The International Labour Organization (ILO) is a specialized agency of the United Nations that deals with labour issues. Its headquarters are in Geneva, Switzerland. Its secretariat the people who are employed by it throughout the world is known as the International Labour Office. The organization received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1969.
International Maritime Organization: The International Maritime Organization (IMO), formerly known as the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization (IMCO), was established in Geneva in 1948, and came into force ten years later, meeting for the first time in 1959. The IMCO name was changed to IMO in 1982. Headquartered in London, United Kingdom, the IMO is a specialized agency of the United Nations with 168 Member States and three Associate Members.
International Civil Aviation Organization: The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), a major agency of the United Nations, codifies the principles and techniques of international air navigation and fosters the planning and development of international air transport to ensure safe and orderly growth. Its headquarters are located in the Quartier International of Montreal, Canada.
International Atomic Energy Agency: The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is an international organization that seeks to promote the peaceful use of nuclear energy and to inhibit its use for military purposes. It was established as an autonomous organization on 29 July 1957. Though established independently of the United Nations under its own international treaty (the IAEA Statute), the IAEA reports to both the General Assembly and the Security Council. The IAEA has its headquarters in Vienna, Austria.
International English: International English is the concept of the English language as a global means of communication in numerous dialects, and also the movement towards an international standard for the language. It is also referred to as Global English, World English, Common English, Continental English or General English. Sometimes these terms refer simply to the array of varieties of English spoken throughout the world.
Ivory-billed Woodpecker: The Ivory-billed Woodpecker (Campephilus principalis) is or was one of the largest woodpeckers in the world, at roughly 20 inches in length and 30 inches in wingspan. Native to the virgin forests of the southeastern United States, along with a separate subspecies native to Cuba, with habitat destruction (and to a lesser extent hunting) its numbers have dwindled to the point where it is uncertain whether any remain.
Insulin-like growth factor: The insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) are polypeptides with high sequence similarity to insulin. IGFs are part of a complex system that cells use to communicate with their physiologic environment. This complex system (often referred to as the IGF "axis") consists of two cell-surface receptors (IGF1R and IGF2R), two ligands (IGF-1 and IGF-2), a family of six high-affinity IGF binding proteins (IGFBP 1-6), as well as associated IGFBP degrading enzymes, referred to collectively as proteases.
International African Institute: The International African Institute (IAI) was founded (as the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures) in 1926 in London for the study of African languages. Diedrich Hermann Westermann was co-director from 1926 to 1939. Since 1928, the IAI has published a quarterly journal, Africa. The IAI's mission is "to promote the education of the public in the study of Africa and its languages and cultures".
Islamism: Islamism is a set of ideologies holding that Islam is not only a religion but also a political system; that modern Muslims must return to their roots of their religion, and unite politically. Islamism is a controversial term and definitions of it sometimes vary.
IGF: IGF may stand for: Insulin-like growth factor Independent Games Festival Internet Governance Forum Identity Governance Framework Inoki Genome Federation International Golf Federation International Gymnastics Federation International Go Federation Induced Gas Flotation
Idiot: An idiot, dolt, or dullard is a mentally deficient person, or someone who acts in a self-defeating or significantly counterproductive way. More humorous synonyms of the term include addlehead, blockhead, bonehead, deadhead, dimwit, dodo, dope, dummy, dunderhead, nincompoop, ninny, nitwit, numbskull, stupidhead, thickhead, and twit, among many others. Archaically the word mome has also been used.
Infusoria: Infusoria is a collective term for minute aquatic creatures like ciliates, euglenoids, protozoa, and unicellular algae that exist in freshwater ponds. In modern formal classifications the term is considered obsolete; and the microorganisms previously included in the Infusoria are mostly assigned to the Kingdom Protista.
Instructional theory: Instructional theory is a discipline that focuses on how to structure material for promoting the education of human beings, particularly youth. Originating in the United States in the late 1970s, instructional theory is typically divided into two categories: the cognitive and behaviorist schools of thought.
ISO/IEC 8859-1: ISO/IEC 8859-1:1998, Information technology 8-bit single-byte coded graphic character sets Part 1: Latin alphabet No. 1, is part of the ISO/IEC 8859 series of ASCII-based standard character encodings, first edition published in 1987. It is informally referred to as Latin-1. It is generally intended for Western European languages (see below for a list).
ISO/IEC 8859: ISO/IEC 8859 is a joint ISO and IEC series of standards for 8-bit character encodings. The series of standards consists of numbered parts, such as ISO/IEC 8859-1, ISO/IEC 8859-2, etc. There are 15 parts, excluding the abandoned ISO/IEC 8859-12. The ISO working group maintaining this series of standards has been disbanded. ISO/IEC 8859 parts 1, 2, 3, and 4 were originally Ecma International standard ECMA-94.
Infrared: Infrared radiation (IR) is electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength between 0.7 and 300 micrometres, which equates to a frequency range between approximately 1 and 430 THz. Its wavelength is longer (and the frequency lower) than that of visible light, but the wavelength is shorter (and the frequency higher) than that of terahertz radiation microwaves. Bright sunlight provides an irradiance of just over 1 kilowatt per square meter at sea level.
Icosidodecahedron: In geometry, an icosidodecahedron is a polyhedron with twenty triangular faces and twelve pentagonal faces. An icosidodecahedron has 30 identical vertices, with two triangles and two pentagons meeting at each, and 60 identical edges, each separating a triangle from a pentagon. As such it is one of the Archimedean solids and more particularly, a quasiregular polyhedron.
ISO 8601: ISO 8601 is an international standard covering the exchange of date and time-related data. The standard is titled "Data elements and interchange formats Information interchange Representation of dates and times" and was issued by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
Industry Standard Architecture: Industry Standard Architecture (in practice almost always shortened to ISA) was a computer bus standard for IBM compatible computers.
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change: The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) is a scientific intergovernmental body tasked with evaluating the risk of climate change caused by human activity. The panel was established in 1988 by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), two organizations of the United Nations. The IPCC shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with former Vice President of the United States Al Gore.
International Seabed Authority: The International Seabed Authority (ISA) is an intergovernmental body based in Kingston, Jamaica, that was established to organize and control all mineral-related activities in the international seabed area beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, an area underlying most of the worlds oceans. It is an independent treaty organization originally established by the Law of the Sea Convention, a widely accepted multilateral treaty.
IPCC: IPCC may refer to: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, of the United Nations Independent Police Complaints Commission, of England and Wales Irish Peatland Conservation Council Interworld Police Coordinating Company, a fictional organization in Jack Vance's novels IP Contact Center, a technology from Cisco Systems, since renamed Integrated Professional Competency Course,the Intermediate level course of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
IBM Personal Computer: The IBM Personal Computer, commonly known as the IBM PC, is the original version and progenitor of the IBM PC compatible hardware platform. It is IBM model number 5150, and was introduced on August 12, 1981. It was created by a team of engineers and designers under the direction of Don Estridge of the IBM Entry Systems Division in Boca Raton, Florida. Alongside "microcomputer" and "home computer", the term "personal computer" was already in use before 1981.
Information Sciences Institute: The Information Sciences Institute (ISI) of the University of Southern California (USC) is a prominent research organization in the field of information science; it is part of the Viterbi School of Engineering at USC. It is involved in a broad spectrum of information processing research, and in the development of advanced computer and communication technologies. The Institute was founded in 1972 by Keith Uncapher.
Income: Income is the consumption and savings opportunity gained by an entity within a specified time frame, which is generally expressed in monetary terms. However, for households and individuals, "income is the sum of all the wages, salaries, profits, interests payments, rents and other forms of earnings received... in a given period of time. " For firms, income generally refers to net-profit: what remains of revenue after expenses have been subtracted.
Counties of Ireland: The counties of Ireland are land divisions, originally formed following the Norman invasion. Between the late 1190s and 1607, the island of Ireland was divided into thirty-two counties. Under the Government of Ireland Act 1920, "Home Rule" institutions were created in two divisions of Ireland, 26 counties forming Southern Ireland and six counties forming Northern Ireland.
Information security: Information security means protecting information and information systems from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction. The terms information security, computer security and information assurance are frequently incorrectly used interchangeably. These fields are interrelated often and share the common goals of protecting the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information; however, there are some subtle differences between them.
Iona: Iona is a small island in the Inner Hebrides off the western coast of Scotland. It was a center of Celtic Christianity for four centuries and is today renowned for its tranquility and natural beauty. It is a popular tourist destination. Its modern Gaelic name means "Iona of Saint Columba" (formerly anglicised "Icolmkill").
Improvisational theatre: Improvisational theatre (also known as improv or impro) is a form of theatre in which the improvisational actors/ improvisers use improvisational acting techniques to perform spontaneously. Improvisers typically use audience suggestions to guide the performance as they create dialogue, setting, and plot extemporaneously.
Irish: Irish may refer to: Something of, from, or related to: Ireland, an island in northwestern Europe, on which are located: Republic of Ireland, a sovereign state Northern Ireland, a constituent country of the United Kingdom Irish language, a Goidelic language spoken on the island of Ireland and by communities worldwide Irish people, people of Irish ethnicity, originating from Ireland Irish (name), a first or last name
Ido: Ido is a constructed language created with the goal of becoming a universal second language for speakers of different linguistic backgrounds as a language easier to learn than ethnic languages. Unlike English, which is a natural and frequently irregular language, Ido was specifically designed for grammatical, orthographic, and lexicographical regularity, and to favor no one who might otherwise be advantaged in a situation due to native fluency in a widespread language.
Cosmicomics: Cosmicomics is a book of short stories by Italo Calvino first published in Italian in 1965 and in English in 1968. Each story takes a scientific "fact" (though sometimes a falsehood by today's understanding), and builds an imaginative story around it. An always extant being called Qfwfq narrates all of the stories save two, each of which is a memory of an event in the history of the universe. Qfwfq also narrates some stories in Calvino's t zero.
IA-32: IA-32 (Intel Architecture, 32-bit), often generically called x86, x86-32 or i386, is the instruction set architecture of Intel's most commercially successful microprocessors yet. It is a 32-bit extension, first implemented in the Intel 80386, of the earlier 16-bit Intel 8086, 80186 and 80286 processors and the common denominator for all subsequent x86 designs.
Internalism and externalism: Internalism and externalism are the names of two contrasting theories in several areas of philosophy. The distinction between internal and external entities arises in many areas of debate with similar but distinct meanings.
Isolationism: Isolationism is a foreign policy which combines a non-interventionist military policy and a political policy of economic nationalism. In other words, it asserts both of the following: Non-interventionism - Political rulers should avoid entangling alliances with other nations and avoid all wars not related to direct territorial self-defense. Protectionism - There should be legal barriers to control trade and cultural exchange with people in other states.
Indianapolis Colts: The Indianapolis Colts are a professional American football team based in Indianapolis, Indiana. They are members of the South Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The club was officially founded in Baltimore, Maryland in 1953, but can trace its history to the Dayton Triangles, a founding member of the NFL that was originally created in 1913.
Image and Scanner Interface Specification: ISIS (Image and Scanner Interface Specification) is an industry standard interface for image scanning technologies, developed by Pixel Translations in 1990. ISIS is an open standard for scanner control and a complete image-processing framework. Now supported by a large number of application and scanner vendors, and rapidly becoming a de facto industry standard, ISIS allows application developers to build very complex image capture systems quickly and reliably using any ISIS certified driver.
Immigration to the United States: American immigration (immigration to the United States of America) refers to the movement of non-residents to the United States. Immigration has been a major source of population growth and cultural change throughout much of American history.
Ivo Caprino: Ivo Caprino (17 February 1920 - 8 February 2001) was a Norwegian film director and writer, best known for his puppet films. His most famous film is Fllypa Grand Prix ("Pinchcliffe Grand Prix"), made in 1975. Caprino was the son of furniture designer Mario Caprino and the artist Ingeborg Gude, who was a granddaughter of the painter Hans Gude. In the mid 1940s, he helped his mother design puppets for a puppet theatre, which inspired him to try making a film using his mother's designs.
Ivanhoe: Ivanhoe is a novel by Sir Walter Scott. It was written in 1819 and set in 12th century England, an example of historical fiction. Ivanhoe is sometimes given credit for helping to increase popular interest in the Middle Ages in 19th century Europe and America.
Intel 80286: The Intel 80286, introduced on February 1, 1982, (originally named 80286, and also called iAPX 286 in the programmer's manual) was an x86 16-bit microprocessor with 134,000 transistors. It was the first Intel processor that could run all the software written for its predecessors, the Intel 8086 and Intel 8088. It was widely used in IBM PC compatible computers during the mid 1980s to early 1990s, starting when IBM first used it in the IBM PC/AT in 1984.
Isaac Bonewits: Phillip Emmons Isaac Bonewits (born October 1, 1949) is an influential Neopagan leader and author. He is a liturgist, speaker, journalist, Neo-druid priest, and a singer, songwriter, and independent recording artist. Born in Royal Oak, Michigan, Bonewits has been heavily involved in occultism since the 1960s.
International reply coupon: An international reply coupon (IRC) is a coupon that can be exchanged for one or more postage stamps representing the minimum postage for an unregistered priority airmail letter of up to twenty grams sent to another Universal Postal Union (UPU) member country. IRCs are accepted by all UPU member countries. UPU member postal services are obliged to exchange an IRC for postage, but are not obliged to sell them.
Isoelectric point: The isoelectric point (pI), sometimes abbreviated to IEP, is the pH at which a particular molecule or surface carries no net electrical charge. Amphoteric molecules called zwitterions contain both positive and negative charges depending on the functional groups present in the molecule. The net charge on the molecule is affected by pH of their surrounding environment and can become more positively or negatively charged due to the loss or gain of protons (H).
Intel 8080: The Intel 8080 was an early microprocessor designed and manufactured by Intel. The 8-bit microprocessor was released in April 1974 running at 2 MHz (at up to 500,000 instructions per second), and is sometimes considered to be the first truly usable microprocessor. The 8080 was implemented using non-saturated enhancement-load NMOS, demanding extra voltages.
Intel 8088: The Intel 8088 microprocessor was a variant of the Intel 8086 and was introduced on July 1, 1979. It had an 8-bit external data bus instead of the 16-bit bus of the 8086. The 16-bit registers and the one megabyte address range were unchanged, however. The original IBM PC was based on the 8088.
Intel 8086: The 8086 is a 16-bit microprocessor chip designed by Intel and introduced to the market in 1978, which gave rise to the x86 architecture. The Intel 8088, released in 1979, was a slightly modified chip with an external 8-bit data bus (allowing the use of cheaper and fewer supporting logic chips), and is notable as the processor used in the original IBM PC.
International Space Station: The International Space Station (ISS) is an internationally developed research facility that is being assembled in low Earth orbit. On-orbit construction of the station began in 1998 and is scheduled for completion by 2011. The station is expected to remain in operation until at least 2015, and likely 2020. With a greater mass than that of any previous space station, the ISS can be seen from the Earth with the naked eye, and, as of 2010, is the largest artificial satellite orbiting the Earth.
Internetworking: Internetworking is the practice of connecting a computer network with other networks through the use of gateways that provide a common method of routing information packets between the networks. The resulting system of interconnected networks is called an internetwork, or simply an internet.
Identity function: In mathematics, an identity function, also called identity map or identity transformation, is a function that always returns the same value that was used as its argument. In terms of equations, the function is given by f(x) = x.
Insulator electrical: An insulator, also called a dielectric, is a material that resists the flow of electric current. An insulating material has atoms with tightly bonded valence electrons. These materials are used in parts of electrical equipment, also called insulators or insulation, intended to support or separate electrical conductors without passing current through themselves.
Instruction register: In computing, an instruction register is the part of a CPU's control unit that stores the instruction currently being executed or decoded. In simple processors each instruction to be executed is loaded into the instruction register which holds it while it is decoded, prepared and ultimately executed, which can take several steps.
List of islands: This is a list of islands in the world grouped by oceans and by continents. For rank-order lists, see the other lists below.
Infantry: Infantrymen are soldiers who are specifically trained for the role of fighting on foot to engage the enemy face to face and have historically borne the brunt of the casualties of combat in wars. As the oldest branch of combat arms they are the backbone of armies. Infantry units have more physically demanding training than other branches of armies, and place a greater emphasis on discipline, fitness, physical strength and aggression.
Intel 80386: The Intel 80386, also known as the i386, or just 386, was a 32-bit microprocessor introduced by Intel in 1985. The first versions had 275,000 transistors and were used as the central processing unit (CPU) of many personal computers and workstations. As the original implementation of the 32-bit extensions to the 8086 architecture, the 80386 instruction set, programming model, and binary encodings are still the common denominator for all 32-bit x86 processors.
INTERCAL: INTERCAL, a programming language parody, is an esoteric programming language that was created by Don Woods and James M. Lyon, two Princeton University students, in 1972. It satirizes aspects of the various programming languages at the time, as well as the proliferation of proposed language constructs and notations in the 1960s. Consequently, the humor may appear rather dated to modern readers brought up with C or Java.
International Data Encryption Algorithm: In cryptography, the International Data Encryption Algorithm (IDEA) is a block cipher designed by James Massey of ETH Zurich and Xuejia Lai and was first described in 1991. As a block cipher, it is also symmetric. The algorithm was intended as a replacement for the Data Encryption Standard. IDEA is a minor revision of an earlier cipher, PES (Proposed Encryption Standard); IDEA was originally called IPES (Improved PES).
Internetwork Packet Exchange: Internetwork Packet Exchange (IPX) is the OSI-model Network layer protocol in the IPX/SPX protocol stack. The IPX/SPX protocol stack is supported by Novell's NetWare network operating system. Because of Netware's popularity through the late 1980s into the mid 1990s, IPX became a popular internetworking protocol. Novell derived IPX from Xerox Network Systems' IDP protocol. IPX usage is in general decline as the boom of the Internet has made TCP/IP nearly universal.
Indoor rower: An indoor rower, or rowing machine, is a machine used to simulate the action of watercraft rowing for the purpose of exercise or training for rowing. Indoor Rowing has become established as a sport in its own right. The term also refers to a participant in this sport. Modern indoor rowers are also sometimes known as ergometers (colloquially erg or ergo), an ergometer being a device which measures the amount of work performed.
International human rights instruments: International human rights instruments can be classified into two categories: declarations, adopted by bodies such as the United Nations General Assembly, which are not legally binding although they may be politically so; and conventions, which are legally binding instruments concluded under international law. International treaties can, over time, obtain the status of customary international law.
Indian removal: Indian removal was a nineteenth century policy of the government of the United States to relocate Native American tribes living east of the Mississippi River to lands west of the river. The Indian Removal Act, part of a United States government policy known as Indian removal, was signed into law by President Andrew Jackson (D) on May 26, 1830.
Iconoclasm: Iconoclasm is the deliberate destruction within a culture of the culture's own religious icons and other symbols or monuments, usually for religious or political motives. It is a frequent component of major domestic political or religious changes. It is thus generally distinguished from the destruction by one culture of the images of another, for example by the Spanish in their American conquests.
Imbolc: Imbolc is one of the four principal festivals of the Gaelic year, celebrated at the beginning of February or the first local signs of Spring. Most commonly it is celebrated on February 1 or 2 (or February 12, according to the Old Calendar), which falls halfway between the Winter Solstice and the Spring Equinox in the northern hemisphere. Originally dedicated to the goddess Brigid, in the Christian period it was adopted as St Brigid's Day.
Green Party Ireland: The Green Party is a green political party in Ireland. It was founded as the Ecology Party of Ireland in 1981 by Dublin teacher Christopher Fettes. The party became the Green Alliance in 1983 and in 1987 was renamed to its current title.
Interpreted language: In computer programming, an interpreted language is a programming language whose programs are not directly executed by the host cpu but rather executed (or said to be interpreted) by a software program known as an interpreter. The source code of the program is often translated to a form that is more convenient to interpret, which may be some form of machine language for a virtual machine.
Ionosphere: The ionosphere is the uppermost part of the atmosphere, distinguished because it is ionized by solar radiation. It plays an important part in atmospheric electricity and forms the inner edge of the magnetosphere. It has practical importance because, among other functions, it influences radio propagation to distant places on the Earth.
Intifada: Intifada ( intifa) is an Arabic word which literally means "shaking off", though it is usually translated into English as "uprising" or "resistance" or "rebellion". It is often used as a term for popular resistance to oppression.
Interlingua: Interlingua (ISO 639 language codes ia, ina) is an international auxiliary language (IAL), developed between 1937 and 1951 by the International Auxiliary Language Association (IALA). It is the second or third most widely used IAL, after Esperanto and perhaps Ido, and the most widely used naturalistic IAL: in other words, its vocabulary, grammar and other characteristics are largely derived from natural languages.
Internet Control Message Protocol: The Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is one of the core protocols of the Internet Protocol Suite. It is chiefly used by networked computers' operating systems to send error messages- indicating, for instance, that a requested service is not available or that a host or router could not be reached. ICMP relies on IP to perform its tasks, and it is an integral part of IP.
Isaiah: Isaiah He lived approximately 2700 years ago and was a prophet in the 8th-century BC Kingdom of Judah. Part of his message was: "The land will be completely laid waste and totally plundered. The LORD has spoken this word. " . Isaiah therefore warns the people of Israel to turn back to Yahweh. Isaiah was sensitive to the common people's problems and was very outspoken regarding their treatment by the aristocracy.
Isle of Wight: The Isle of Wight is a county and the largest island of England, located in the English Channel, 3-5 miles (5-8 km) off the south coast of the county of Hampshire, separated from the mainland by a strait called the Solent. The island is known for its outstanding natural beauty, its world-famous sailing based at the town of Cowes, and its resorts, which have been popular holiday destinations since the Victorian times.
Inverse limit: In mathematics, the inverse limit (also called the projective limit) is a construction which allows one to "glue together" several related objects, the precise manner of the gluing process being specified by morphisms between the objects. Inverse limits can be defined in any category.
Interplanetary spaceflight: Interplanetary spaceflight or interplanetary travel is travel between planets within a single planetary system. In practice, spaceflights of this type are confined to travel between the planets of the Solar System.
ICMP: ICMP may be: International Commission on Missing Persons International Confederation of Music Publishers International Congress on Mathematical Physics Internet Control Message Protocol International Collection of Microorganisms from Plants held by Landcare Research
Interference wave propagation: In physics, interference is the addition of two or more waves that results in a new wave pattern. Interference usually refers to the interaction of waves that are correlated or coherent with each other, either because they come from the same source or because they have the same or nearly the same frequency.
Indictable offence: In many common law jurisdictions, an indictable offence is an offence which can only be tried on an indictment after a preliminary hearing to determine whether there is a prima facie case to answer or by a grand jury (in contrast to a summary offence). In trials for indictable offences, the accused normally has the right to a jury trial, unless he or she waives that right. In the United States, a crime of similar severity is a felony, although it too proceeds after an indictment.
Interferon: Interferons (IFNs) are proteins made and released by the cells of most vertebrates in response to the presence of pathogens such as viruses, bacteria, or parasites or tumor cells. They allow communication between cells to trigger the protective defenses of the immune system that eradicate pathogens or tumors. IFNs belong to the large class of glycoproteins known as cytokines.
F.C. Internazionale Milano: Football Club Internazionale Milano, commonly referred to as Internazionale or simply Inter, is an Italian professional football club based in Milan, Lombardy. They play in the Italian Serie A. Playing in black and blue striped shirts with black shorts, they have 17 Serie A titles to their name. Including the Coppa Italia (five wins) and the Italian Super Cup (four wins), Inter have a total of 26 national trophies.
Irrealism the arts: Irrealism is a term that has been used by various writers in the fields of philosophy, literature, and art to denote specific modes of unreality and/or the problems in concretely defining reality. While in philosophy the term specifically refers to a position put forward by the American philosopher Nelson Goodman, in literature and art it refers to a variety of writers and movements.
Israeli settlement: Israeli settlements are Israeli-only civilian communities in the Israeli-occupied territories. Such settlements currently exist in the West Bank, East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights. The latter two areas are governed under Israeli civil law but are considered to be under military occupation by the international community. Eighteen settlements formerly existed in the Sinai Peninsula and twenty-one in the Gaza Strip.
Internet humor: The Internet has long been a resource for the circulation of humorous ideas and jokes. Countless web-sites are devoted to the collection of Internet humor, and every day e-mail crosses the world, containing the text of humorous articles, or jokes about current events. "Internet humor" is distinguishable from "Humor on the Internet" through the concept of ownership.
You have two cows: "You have two cows" is the beginning phrase for a series of political joke definitions.
Lightbulb joke: A lightbulb joke is a joke that asks how many people of a certain group are needed to change, replace, or screw in a light bulb. Generally, the punch line answer highlights a stereotype of the target group. There are numerous versions of the lightbulb joke satirizing a wide range of cultures, beliefs and occupations. The original formulations of the joke, popular in the late 1960s and the 1970s, were used to insult the intelligence of Poles. For instance: Q.
International Electrotechnical Commission: The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) is a not-for-profit, non-governmental international standards organization that prepares and publishes International Standards for all electrical, electronic and related technologies - collectively known as "electrotechnology".
Ice skating: Ice skating is moving on ice by use of ice skates. It can be done for a variety of reasons, including leisure, travelling, and various sports. Ice skating occurs both on specially prepared indoor and outdoor tracks, as well as on naturally occurring bodies of frozen water such as lakes and rivers.
ISO 9660: ISO 9660, also referred to as CDFS (Compact Disc File System) by some hardware and software providers, is a file system standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) for optical disc media. It aims at supporting different computer operating systems such as Windows, classic Mac OS, and Unix-like systems, so that data may be exchanged. ISO 9660 traces its roots to the High Sierra Format file system.
International Olympic Committee: The International Olympic Committee is a corporation based in Lausanne, Switzerland, created by Pierre de Coubertin and Demetrios Vikelas on 23 June 1894. Its membership consists of the 205 National Olympic Committees. The IOC organizes the modern Olympic Games held in Summer and Winter, every four years. The first Summer Olympics organized by the International Olympic Committee were held in Athens, Greece, in 1896; the first Winter Olympics were in Chamonix, France, in 1924.
Integrated circuit: In electronics, an integrated circuit (also known as IC, microcircuit, microchip, silicon chip, or chip) is a miniaturized electronic circuit (consisting mainly of semiconductor devices, as well as passive components) that has been manufactured in the surface of a thin substrate of semiconductor material. Integrated circuits are used in almost all electronic equipment in use today and have revolutionized the world of electronics.
IBM 3270: The IBM 3270 is a class of terminals made by IBM since 1972 (known as "display devices") normally used to communicate with IBM mainframes. As such, it was the successor to the IBM 2260 display terminal. Due to the text color on the original models, these terminals are informally known as green screen terminals.
Islamic Jihad: Islamic Jihad may refer to: Islamic Jihad Movement in Palestine Islamic Jihad Organization, active mostly in Lebanon Islamic Jihad of Yemen Turkish Islamic Jihad Egyptian Islamic Jihad See also: Islamic jihad, theological concept of jihad
Intel 80486: The Intel 80486 (or i486) was a microprocessor produced by Intel and the first tightly pipelined x86 design. Introduced in 1989, it was also the first x86 chip to use more than a million transistors, due to a large on-chip cache and an integrated floating point unit. It represents a fourth generation of binary compatible CPUs since the original 8086 of 1978, and it was the second 32-bit x86 design after the 80386.
I. M. Pei: Ieoh Ming Pei (born April 26, 1917), commonly known by his initials I. M. Pei, is a Chinese-born American architect. Although he refuses to apply labels to his own work, he is considered a master of modern architecture. Born in Guangzhou and raised in Hong Kong and Shanghai, Pei drew artistic inspiration at an early age from the gardens at Suzhou.
Intel 80486SX: Intel 80486SX images and descriptions at cpu-collection. de Intel Datasheets Embedded i486SX Embedded Ultra-Low Power i486SX
Ivory: Ivory is formed from dentine and constitutes the bulk of the teeth and tusks of animals such as the elephant, hippopotamus, walrus, mammoth and narwhal. The word "ivory" was traditionally applied to the tusks of elephants; the word is ultimately from Ancient Egyptian , u "elephant", through the Latin ebor- or ebur. Ivory has availed itself to many ornamental and practical uses.
ICQ: ICQ is a popular instant messaging computer program, which was first developed by the Israeli company Mirabilis, now owned by AOL. The first version of the program was released in November 1996 and ICQ became one of the first Internet-wide instant messaging services. The name ICQ is a homophone for the phrase "I seek you". America Online (AOL) acquired Mirabilis on June 8, 1998 for US$407 million. According to Time Warner, ICQ has over 100 million accounts registered.
Impressionism: Impressionism was a 19th-century art movement that began as a loose association of Paris-based artists whose independent exhibitions brought them to prominence in the 1870s and 1880s. The name of the movement is derived from the title of a Claude Monet work, Impression, Sunrise (Impression, soleil levant), which provoked the critic Louis Leroy to coin the term in a satiric review published in Le Charivari.
Internet slang: Internet slang (Internet language, Internet Short-hand, leet, netspeak or chatspeak) is a type of slang that Internet users have popularized, and in many cases, have coined. Such terms often originate with the purpose of saving keystrokes. Many people use the same abbreviations in texting and instant messaging, and social networking websites. Acronyms, keyboard symbols and shortened words are often used as methods of abbreviation in Internet slang.
Impi: An impi is an isiZulu word for any armed body of men. However, in English it is often used to refer to a Zulu regiment, which is called an ibutho in Zulu. Its beginnings lie far back in historic tribal warfare customs, where groups of armed men called impis battled.
Infantry fighting vehicle: An infantry fighting vehicle (IFV, also known as infantry combat vehicle, ICV) is a type of armoured fighting vehicle (AFV) used to carry infantry into battle and provide fire support for them.
Irish mythology: The mythology of pre-Christian Ireland did not entirely survive the conversion to Christianity, but much of it was preserved, shorn of its religious meanings, in medieval Irish literature, which represents the most extensive and best preserved of all the branch and the Historical Cycle. There are also a number of extant mythological texts that don't fit into any of the cycles.
Intergovernmentalism: The term Intergovernmentalism can mean different things:
Insurance: Insurance, in law and economics, is a form of risk management primarily used to hedge against the risk of a contingent loss. Insurance is defined as the equitable transfer of the risk of a loss, from one entity to another, in exchange for a premium, and can be thought of as a guaranteed and known small loss to prevent a large, possibly devastating loss. An insurer is a company selling the insurance; an insured or policyholder is the person or entity buying the insurance.
Individualism: Individualism is the moral stance, political philosophy, ideology, or social outlook that stresses "the moral worth of the individual". Individualists promote the exercise of one's goals and desires and so independence and self-reliance while opposing most external interference upon one's own interests, whether by society, or any other group or institution.
Indira Gandhi: Indira Priyadarshini Gandhi (Hindi: Indir Priyadarin Gndh; n: Nehru; was the prime minister of the Republic of India for three consecutive terms from 1966 to 1977 and for a fourth term from 1980 until her assassination in 1984, a total of fifteen years. She was India's first, and to date only, female prime minister.
Intersexuality: Intersexuality in humans refers to intermediate or atypical combinations of physical features that usually distinguish male from female. This is usually understood to be congenital, involving chromosomal, morphologic, genital and/or gonadal anomalies, such as diversion from typical XX-female or XY-male presentations, e.g. , sex reversal (XY-female, XX-male), genital ambiguity, sex developmental differences.
IEEE 754-1985: The first IEEE Standard for Binary Floating-Point Arithmetic (IEEE 754-1985) set the standard for floating-point computation for 23 years. It became the most widely-used standard for floating-point computation, and is followed by many CPU and FPU implementations. Its binary floating-point formats and arithmetic are preserved in the new IEEE 754-2008 standard which replaced it.
In vitro: A procedure performed in vitro is performed not in a living organism but in a controlled environment, such as in a test tube or Petri dish. Many experiments in cellular biology are conducted outside of organisms or cells; because the test conditions may not correspond to the conditions inside of the organism, this may lead to results that do not correspond to the situation that arises in a living organism.
In vivo: In vivo (Latin for "within the living") is experimentation using a whole, living organism as opposed to a partial or dead organism, or an in vitro controlled environment. Animal testing and clinical trials are two forms of in vivo research. In vivo testing is often employed over in vitro because it is better suited for observing the overall effects of an experiment on a living subject.
Intel 80186: The Intel 80186 is a microprocessor and microcontroller introduced in 1982. It was based on the Intel 8086 and, like it, had a 16-bit external data bus multiplexed with a 20-bit address bus. It was also available as the Intel 80188, with an 8-bit external data bus.
Italian Football League: Italian Football League (IFL) is the name of the most important American football league in Italy. It was founded in 2008, taking over previous league's significance (National Football League Italy).
Iduna: Iduna can mean several things: One of several modern anglicizations of the name of the Norse goddess Inn. A literature society co-founded by Guido von List called Iduna (literature society). Asteroid 176 Iduna named after the goddess. The Iduna language of Papua New Guinea. A genus and subgenus of tree warblers. The journal of the Geatish Society.
Indic: Indic can refer to: Indo-Aryan languages Indic scripts Related to South Asia of or related to India (Indian); see Indica
Papua province: Papua is the largest province of Indonesia, comprising most of the western half of the island of New Guinea and nearby islands. The province originally covered the entire western half of New Guinea. In 2003, the Indonesian government declared the westernmost part of the island, around Bird's Head Peninsula, a separate province; its name was first West Irian Jaya and now West Papua.
Inquisition: The term Inquisition can apply to any one of several institutions charged with trying and convicting heretics (or other offenders against canon law) within the justice-system of the Catholic Church. It may also refer to:
IMF disambiguation: IMF is an abbreviation for:
Interdisciplinarity: An interdisciplinary field is a field of study that crosses traditional boundaries between academic disciplines or schools of thought, as new needs and professions have emerged. Originally the term interdisciplinary is applied within education and training pedagogies to describe studies that use methods and insights of several established disciplines or traditional fields of study.
Isaac: Isaac as described in the Hebrew Bible, was the only son Abraham had with his wife Sarah, and was the father of Jacob and Esau. Isaac is one of the three patriarchs of the Jewish people. According to the Book of Genesis, Abraham was 100 years old when Isaac was born, and Sarah was beyond childbearing years. Isaac was the only Biblical patriarch whose name was not changed, and the only one who did not leave Canaan.
Ig Nobel Prize: The Ig Nobel Prizes are an American parody of the Nobel Prizes and are given each year in early October for ten achievements that "first make people laugh, and then make them think". Organized by the scientific humor magazine Annals of Improbable Research (AIR), they are presented by a group that includes genuine Nobel Laureates at a ceremony at Harvard University's Sanders Theater.
Isaac Alb niz: Isaac Albiz i Pascual (29 May 1860, Camprodon - 18 May 1909, Cambo-les-Bains) was a Spanish Catalan pianist and composer best known for his piano works based on folk music idioms (many of which have been transcribed by others for guitar).
Insertion sort: Insertion sort is a simple sorting algorithm, a comparison sort in which the sorted array (or list) is built one entry at a time. It is much less efficient on large lists than more advanced algorithms such as quicksort, heapsort, or merge sort. However, insertion sort provides several advantages: simple implementation efficient for (quite) small data sets adaptive, i.e.
ITU-R: The ITU Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R) is one of the three sectors (divisions or units) of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and is responsible for radio communication. Its role is to manage the international radio-frequency spectrum and satellite orbit resources and to develop standards for radiocommunications systems with the objective of ensuring the effective use of the spectrum.
Imprecise language: While imprecise language is not desirable in various scientific fields, it may be helpful, illustrative or discussion-stimulative in other contexts. Imprecision in a discourse may or may not be the intention of the author(s) or speaker(s). The role of imprecision may depend on audience, end goal, extended context and subject matter. Relevant players and real stakes will also bear on truth-grounds of statements.
Internet Explorer: Windows Internet Explorer (formerly Microsoft Internet Explorer; abbreviated to MSIE or, more commonly, IE), is a series of graphical web browsers developed by Microsoft and included as part of the Microsoft Windows line of operating systems starting in 1995. It has been the most widely used web browser since 1999, attaining a peak of about 95% usage share during 2002 and 2003 with IE5 and IE6.
Intel 80188: The Intel 80188 is a version of the Intel 80186 microprocessor with an 8 bit external data bus, instead of 16 bit. This makes it less expensive to connect to peripherals. Since the 80188 is very similar to the 80186, it had a throughput of 1 million instructions per second. As the 8086, the 80188 featured four 16-bit general registers, which could also be accessed as eight 8-bit registers.
Irish Civil War: The Irish Civil War was a conflict that accompanied the establishment of the Irish Free State as an entity independent from the United Kingdom within the British Empire. The conflict was waged between two opposing groups of Irish nationalists: the forces of the "Provisional Government" that established the Free State in December 1922, who supported the Anglo-Irish Treaty, and the Republican opposition, for whom the Treaty represented a betrayal of the Irish Republic.
IEEE 802.2: IEEE 802.2 is the IEEE 802 standard defining Logical Link Control (LLC), which is the upper portion of the data link layer of the OSI Model. The LLC sublayer presents a uniform interface to the user of the data link service, usually the network layer. Beneath the LLC sublayer is the Media Access Control (MAC) sublayer, which is dependent on the particular medium being used.
Ivar Aasen: Ivar Andreas Aasen (August 5, 1813 - September 23, 1896) was a Norwegian philologist, lexicographer, playwright and poet.
Invertebrate: An invertebrate is an animal without a backbone. The group includes 95% of all animal species all animals except those in the Chordate subphylum Vertebrata. Carolus Linnaeus' Systema Naturae divided these animals into only two groups, the Insecta and the now-obsolete vermes.
Irredentism: Irredentism (from Italian irredento, "unredeemed") is any position advocating annexation of territories administered by another state on the grounds of common ethnicity or prior historical possession, actual or alleged. Some of these movements are also called pan-nationalist movements. It is a feature of identity politics and cultural and political geography.
Inuit language: The Inuit language is traditionally spoken across the North American Arctic and to some extent in the subarctic in Labrador. It is also spoken in far eastern Russia, particularly the Diomede Islands, but is severely endangered in Russia today and is spoken only in a few villages on the Chukchi Peninsula. The Inuit live primarily in three countries: Greenland (a constituent of the Kingdom of Denmark), Canada, and the United States (specifically the state of Alaska).
Ibn Battuta: Abu Abdullah Muhammad Ibn Abdullah Al Lawati Al Tanji Ibn Battuta Arabic: &lrm; or simply Ibn Battuta (February 24, 1304-1368 or 1369) was a Moroccan Berber Muslim scholar and traveller who is known for the account of his travels and excursions called the Rihla (Voyage) in Arabic.
Genomic imprinting: Genomic imprinting is a genetic phenomenon by which certain genes are expressed in a parent-of-origin-specific manner. It is an inheritance process independent of the classical Mendelian inheritance. Imprinted genes are either expressed only from the allele inherited from the mother, or in other instances from the allele inherited from the father. Forms of genomic imprinting have been demonstrated in insects, mammals and flowering plants.
Integrated Services Digital Network: Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) is a set of communications standards for simultaneous digital transmission of voice, video, data, and other network services over the traditional circuits of the public switched telephone network. It was first defined in 1984 in the CCITT red book. Prior to ISDN, the phone system was viewed as a way to transport voice, with some special services available for data.
ICANN: ICANN is the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. Headquartered in Marina Del Rey, California, United States, ICANN is a non-profit corporation that was created on September 18, 1998 and incorporated September 30, 1998 in order to oversee a number of Internet-related tasks previously performed directly on behalf of the U.S. government by other organizations, notably the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority.
Iterative method: In computational mathematics, an iterative method attempts to solve a problem (for example, finding the root of an equation or system of equations) by finding successive approximations to the solution starting from an initial guess. This approach is in contrast to direct methods, which attempt to solve the problem by a finite sequence of operations, and, in the absence of rounding errors, would deliver an exact solution (like solving a linear system of equations Ax = b by Gaussian elimination).
International judicial institution: International judicial institutions can be divided into courts, arbitral tribunals and quasi-judicial institutions. Courts are permanent bodies, with near the same composition for each case. Arbitral tribunals, by contrast, are constituted anew for each case. Both courts and arbitral tribunals can make binding decisions.
International Prize Court: The International Prize Court was an international court proposed at the beginning of the 20th century, to hear prize cases. An international agreement to create it, the Convention Relative to the Creation of an International Prize Court, was made at the Hague on October 18, 1907. The International Prize Court was to hear appeals from national courts concerning prize cases.
Ismail Khan: Ismail Khan (born 1946), an ethnic Tajik from Herat, Afghanistan, was a powerful Mujahedeen commander in the Soviet War in Afghanistan, and then a key member of the Northern Alliance, later the Governor of Herat Province and is now the Minister of Energy for the country. He is a key member of the political party Jamiat-e Islami and the new party United National Front.
Imam: An imam is an Islamic leadership position, often the leader of a mosque and the community. Similar to spiritual leaders, the imam is the one who leads the prayer during Islamic gatherings. More often, the community turns to the mosque imam if they have an Islamic question. In smaller communities an imam could be the community leader based on the community setting. It is important to note that the position of the Imam is not clerical in Sunni-Islam
Indigo: Indigo is the color on the electromagnetic spectrum between about 420 and 450 nm in wavelength, placing it between blue and violet, and is the state color of South Carolina. Although traditionally considered one of seven divisions of the optical spectrum, modern color scientists do not usually recognize indigo as a separate division and generally classify wavelengths shorter than about 450 nm as violet. Like violet, whether indigo is considered a shade of purple depends on context.
Instrument flight rules: Instrument flight rules (IFR) are regulations and procedures for flying aircraft by referring only to the aircraft instrument panel for navigation. Even if nothing can be seen outside the cockpit windows, an IFR-rated pilot can fly while looking only at the instrument panel. An IFR-rated pilot can also be authorized to fly through clouds, using Air Traffic Control procedures designed to maintain separation from other aircraft.
International Monetary Fund: The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is the international organization that oversees the global financial system by following the macroeconomic policies of its member countries, in particular those with an impact on exchange rate and the balance of payments. It is an organization formed with a stated objective of stabilizing international exchange rates and facilitating development. It also offers highly leveraged loans, mainly to poorer countries. Its headquarters are in Washington, D.C.
Islands of the Clyde: The Islands of the Firth of Clyde are the fifth of the major Scottish island groups after the Inner and Outer Hebrides, Orkney and Shetland. The islands are situated in the Firth of Clyde between Ayrshire and Argyll. There are about forty islands and skerries, of which only six are inhabited. The largest and most populous are Arran and Bute, and Great Cumbrae, Holy Isle and Inchmarnock are also served by dedicated ferry routes.
International Bank Account Number: The International Bank Account Number (IBAN) is an international standard for identifying bank accounts across national borders in a way that would minimise the risk of propagating transcription errors. It was originally adopted by the European Committee for Banking Standards, and was later adopted as an international standard under ISO 13616:1997 and now as ISO 13616-1:2007.
Immaculate Conception: The Immaculate Conception is, according to Roman Catholic doctrine, the conception of the Virgin Mary without any stain ("immacula" in Latin) of original sin. It is one of the four dogmas in Roman Catholic Mariology. Under this aspect Mary is sometimes called the Immaculata (the Immaculate One), particularly in artistic contexts.
Intel 80486DX4: The IntelDX4 is a clock-tripled i486 microprocessor with 16kb L1 cache. Intel named it deceptively during litigation with AMD over trademarks. The product was officially named the IntelDX4, but OEMs continued using the i486 naming convention. Intel produced IntelDX4s with two clock speed steppings: A 75 MHz version (3 25 MHz multiplier), and a 100 MHz version (usually 3 33.3 MHz, but sometimes also 2x50MHz). Both chips were released on March 1994.
Infinitive: In grammar, infinitive is the name for certain verb forms that exist in many languages. In the usual (traditional) description of English, the infinitive of a verb is its basic form with or without the particle to: therefore, do and to do, be and to be, and so on are infinitives. As with many linguistic concepts, there is not a single definition of infinitive that applies to all languages.
Iapetus: Iapetus may mean: Iapetus (mythology), a Titan in Greek mythology Iapetus (moon), one of the planet Saturn's moons Iapetus Ocean, an ancient ocean between Laurentia and Baltica
Islands of the North Atlantic: IONA (Islands of the North Atlantic) is an acronym suggested in 1980 by Sir John Biggs-Davison to refer to a loose linkage of the United Kingdom, Ireland, the Isle of Man and Channel Islands, similar to the present day British-Irish Council. Its intended purpose was as a more politicly acceptable alternative to British Isles, which is disliked by many people in Ireland.
Immunity: Immunity may refer to:
Inquest England and Wales: Inquests in England and Wales are held into sudden and unexplained deaths and also into the circumstances of discovery of a certain class of valuable artefacts known as "treasure trove". Inquests are the responsibility of the coroner.
List of Italian language poets: Poets who wrote in Italian (or Italian dialects):
Information retrieval: Information retrieval (IR) is the science of searching for documents, for information within documents, and for metadata about documents, as well as that of searching relational databases and the World Wide Web. There is overlap in the usage of the terms data retrieval, document retrieval, information retrieval, and text retrieval, but each also has its own body of literature, theory, praxis, and technologies.
Index: An index is a system used to make finding information easier. Index may also refer to: Bibliographic index, a regularly updated print periodical publication that lists articles, books, and/or other information items, usually within a particular discipline.
Interactive Fiction Competition: The Interactive Fiction Competition (also known as IFComp) is one of the most well-known of several annual competitions for works of interactive fiction. It has been held since 1995. It is intended for fairly short games, as judges are only allowed to spend two hours playing a game before deciding how many points to award it. The competition has been described as the "Super Bowl" of interactive fiction. A reviewer for The A.V.
ISO 216: ISO 216 specifies international standard (ISO) paper sizes used in most countries in the world today. It is the standard which defines the commonly available A4 paper size. The underlying principle is that when folded in half length-wise the paper retains its original aspect ratio: .
ISO 3864: ISO 3864 specifies international standards for safety symbols. These labels are graphical, to overcome language barriers. The corresponding American standard is ANSI Z535, which is incompatible with the ISO standard. ANSI standard ANSI Z535.6-2006 defines an optional accompanying text in one or more languages.
List of intelligence agencies: The following is a partial list of current intelligence agencies.
Internet Engineering Task Force: The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) develops and promotes Internet standards, cooperating closely with the W3C and ISO/IEC standards bodies and dealing in particular with standards of the TCP/IP and Internet protocol suite. It is an open standards organization, with no formal membership or membership requirements.
Isaac Abendana: Isaac Abendana (ca. 1640 - 1710) was the younger brother of Jacob Abendana, and became hakam of the Spanish Portuguese Synagogue in London after his brother died. Abendana moved to England before his brother, in 1662, and taught Hebrew at Cambridge University. He completed an unpublished Latin translation of the Mishnah for the university in 1671. While he was at Cambridge, Abendana sold Hebrew books to the Bodleian Library of Oxford, and in 1689 he took a teaching position in Magdalen College.
International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia: The International Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia since 1991, more commonly referred to as the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia or ICTY, is a body of the United Nations established to prosecute serious crimes committed during the wars in the former Yugoslavia, and to try their perpetrators.
ISM band: The industrial, scientific and medical (ISM) radio bands were originally reserved internationally for the use of RF electromagnetic fields for industrial, scientific and medical purposes other than communications. In general, communications equipment must accept any interference generated by ISM equipment. The ISM bands are defined by the ITU-R in 5.138, 5.150, and 5.280 of the Radio Regulations.
Interrupt: In computing, an interrupt is an asynchronous signal indicating the need for attention or a synchronous event in software indicating the need for a change in execution. A hardware interrupt causes the processor to save its state of execution and begin execution of an interrupt handler. Software interrupts are usually implemented as instructions in the instruction set, which cause a context switch to an interrupt handler similar to a hardware interrupt.
Series mathematics: In mathematics, given an infinite sequence of numbers (an), a series is informally the result of adding all those terms together: a1 + a2 + a3 + . These can be written more compactly using the summation symbol . An example is the famous series from Zeno's dichotomy The terms of the series are often produced according to a certain rule, such as by a formula, or by an algorithm. As there are an infinite number of terms, this notion is often called an infinite series.
Intercalation: Intercalation is the insertion of a leap day, week or month into some calendar years to make the calendar follow the seasons or moon phases. Lunisolar calendars may require intercalations of both days and months.
Intercourse: Intercourse can refer to: Sexual intercourse Social intercourse, any kind of human communication and/or interaction Intercourse (book), by Andrea Dworkin Intercourse, Alabama, USA Intercourse, Pennsylvania, USA InterCourses, a US erotic cookbook published in 1997
Ink: An ink is a liquid containing various pigments and/or dyes used for coloring a surface to produce an image, text, or design. Ink is used for drawing and/or writing with a pen, brush or quill. Thicker inks, in paste form, are used extensively in letterpress and lithographic printing. Ink is a complex medium composed of solvents, pigments, dyes, resins, lubricants, solubilizers, surfactants, particulate matter, fluorescers, and other materials.
Islamabad Capital Territory: The Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT) is one of the two federal territories of Pakistan. It includes Islamabad, the capital city of Pakistan, and covers an area of 1,165.5 km of which 906 km is Islamabad proper. It is represented in the National Assembly by two constituencies, namely NA-48 and NA-49.
Integrin: Integrins are receptors that mediate attachment between a cell and the tissues surrounding it, which may be other cells or the extracellular matrix (ECM). They also play a role in cell signaling and thereby define cellular shape, mobility, and regulate the cell cycle. Typically, receptors inform a cell of the molecules in its environment and the cell evokes a response. Not only do integrins perform this outside-in signalling, but they also operate an inside-out mode.
Ion channel: Ion channels are pore-forming proteins that help establish and control the small voltage gradient across the plasma membrane of all living cells by allowing the flow of ions down their electrochemical gradient. They are present in the membranes that surround all biological cells. The study of ion channels involves many scientific techniques such as voltage clamp electrophysiology, immunohistochemistry, and RT-PCR.
IDE: IDE may refer to: Integrated development environment, a software development system Intact dilation and extraction, a form of abortion Insulin degrading enzyme, an enzyme Integrated Drive Electronics, a computer hardware bus used primarily for hard drives and optical drives (e.g.
Integrated development environment: An integrated development environment (IDE) also known as integrated design environment or integrated debugging environment is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for software development. An IDE normally consists of: a source code editor a compiler and/or an interpreter build automation tools a debugger Sometimes a version control system and various tools are integrated to simplify the construction of a GUI.
Intellivision: The Intellivision is a video game console released by Mattel in 1979. Development of the console began in 1978, less than a year after the introduction of its main competitor, the Atari 2600. The word intellivision is a portmanteau of "intelligent television". Over 3 million Intellivision units were sold and a total of 125 games were released for the console.
Ian McKellen: Sir Ian Murray McKellen, CH, CBE (born 25 May 1939) is an English actor of stage and screen. He has received a Tony Award and two Academy Award nominations. His work has spanned genres from Shakespearean and modern theatre to popular fantasy and science fiction. He is known to many for roles such as Gandalf in the Lord of the Rings film trilogy and as Magneto in the X-Men films. In 1988, McKellen came out and announced he was gay.
Imperialism: Imperialism, defined by The Dictionary of Human Geography, is "the creation and maintenance of an unequal economic, cultural and territorial relationship, usually between states and often in the form of an empire, based on domination and subordination. " Imperialism has been described as a primarily western concept that employs "expansionist - mercantilist and latterly communist - systems. " Imperialism is considered the control by one state of other territories.
IPv4: Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) is the fourth revision in the development of the Internet Protocol (IP) and it is the first version of the protocol to be widely deployed. Together with IPv6, it is at the core of standards-based internetworking methods of the Internet. IPv4 is still by far the most widely deployed Internet Layer protocol, as IPv6 is still in its infancy of deployment. IPv4 is described in IETF publication RFC 791 (September 1981), replacing an earlier definition.
Inca Empire: The Inca Empire, or Inka Empire, was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America. The administrative, political and military center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru. The Inca civilization arose from the highlands of Peru sometime in the early 13th century.
IPv6: Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) is the next-generation Internet Protocol version designated as the successor to IPv4, the first implementation used in the Internet that is still in dominant use currently. It is an Internet Layer protocol for packet-switched internetworks. The main driving force for the redesign of Internet Protocol is the foreseeable IPv4 address exhaustion.
Inka: Inka Shmei, is a term used in Zen Buddhism to denote a high-level of certification, and literally means "the legitimate seal of clearly furnished proof. " In ancient times inka usually came in the form of an actual document, but this practice is no longer commonplace. A qualified Zen master bestows inka only upon his or her students that have demonstrated themselves as leaders and capable of teaching. James H.
Intelligent design: Intelligent design is the assertion that "certain features of the universe and of living things are best explained by an intelligent cause, not an undirected process such as natural selection. " It is a modern form of the traditional teleological argument for the existence of God, but one which avoids specifying the nature or identity of the designer.
Inca disambiguation: Inca, Inka, nc or INCA may refer to: Inca civilization, centered in what is now Peru the Inca Empire (1438-1533) Sapa Inca or Inka, the main ruler of the Inca Empire Inca, several species of hummingbirds in the genus Coeligena Inca (beetle), a scarab beetle genus.
Ibizan Hound: The Ibizan Hound, pronounced "I-bee-zan" or "I-beeth-an", is an agile, deer-like dog of the hound family. There are two hair types of the breed: smooth and wire. The more commonly seen type is the smooth. Some consider there to be a third type, long, but most consider the longhair to be a variation of the wire.
Internet Protocol: The Internet Protocol (IP) is a protocol used for communicating data across a packet-switched internetwork using the Internet Protocol Suite, also referred to as TCP/IP. IP is the primary protocol in the Internet Layer of the Internet Protocol Suite and has the task of delivering distinguished protocol datagrams (packets) from the source host to the destination host solely based on their addresses.
Impeachment: Impeachment is a formal process in which an elected official is accused of unlawful activity, and which may or may not lead to the removal of that official from office. It is the first of two stages. Impeachment does not necessarily result in removal from office; it is only a legal statement of charges, parallel to an indictment in criminal law.
Irish Wolfhound: The Irish Wolfhound is a breed of domestic dog (Canis lupus familiaris), specifically a sighthound. The name originates from its purpose rather than from its appearance. Irish Wolfhounds are the tallest dog breed on average.
Italian Greyhound: The Italian Greyhound is a small breed of dog of the sight hound type. They are sometimes called an "I.G. ", or "Iggy" for short.
Information technology: Information technology (IT), as defined by the Information Technology Association of America (ITAA), is "the study, design, development, implementation, support or management of computer-based information systems, particularly software applications and computer hardware. " IT deals with the use of electronic computers and computer software to convert, store, protect, process, transmit, and securely retrieve information.
Into the Woods: Into the Woods is a musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by James Lapine. It debuted in San Diego at the Old Globe Theatre in 1986, and premiered on Broadway in 1987. Bernadette Peters' performance as the Witch, and Joanna Gleason's portrayal of the Baker's Wife, brought acclaim to the production during its original Broadway run.
Isaac Klein: Isaac Klein (1905-1979) was a prominent rabbi and halakhic authority within Conservative Judaism.
Intron: An intron is a DNA region within a gene that is not translated into protein. These non-coding sections are transcribed to precursor mRNA (pre-mRNA) and some other RNAs, and subsequently removed by a process called splicing during the processing to mature RNA. After intron splicing (ie. removal), the mRNA consists only of exon derived sequences, which are translated into a protein. The word intron is derived from the term intragenic region and also called intervening sequence (IVS)
IEE: IEE may stand for: Integrated Enterprise Excellence, the Industrial Engineering system documented in books by Forrest W. Breyfogle III Institution of Electrical Engineers, in engineering, now part of the Institution of Engineering and Technology Intuitive Ethical Extrovert, in socionics. Industrial Electronics Engineers, Inc, a company founded in 1946 by Donald Gumpertz which manufactures electronic displays.
Intelligence disambiguation: Intelligence may refer to: Intelligence - overview of intelligence in humans Intelligence (information gathering)
Institute of National Remembrance: Institute of National Remembrance Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish Nation is a Polish government-affiliated research institute with lustration prerogatives and prosecution powers founded by specific legislation. It specialises in the legal and historical sciences and in particular the recent history of Poland. IPN investigates both Nazi and Communist crimes committed in Poland, documents its findings and disseminates the results of its investigations to the public.
Identical particles: Identical particles, or indistinguishable particles, are particles that cannot be distinguished from one another, even in principle. Species of identical particles include elementary particles such as electrons, as well as composite particles such as atoms and molecules which are in precisely the same quantum state. There are two main categories of identical particles: bosons, which can share quantum states, and fermions, which do not share quantum states due to the Pauli exclusion principle.
Interstitial cystitis: Interstitial cystitis or Bladder pain syndrome/interstitial cystitis (commonly abbreviated to "BPS/IC") is a urinary bladder disease of unknown cause characterised by pain associated with urination, urinary frequency (as often as every 10 minutes), urgency, and pressure in the bladder and/or pelvis. Pain that worsened with a certain food or drink and/or worsened with bladder filling and/or improved with urination was reported by 97% of patients.
Imperial Chemical Industries: Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI) was a British chemical company, now a subsidiary of AkzoNobel, a Dutch conglomerate, one of the largest chemical producers in the world. It produces paints and speciality products (including ingredients for foods, specialty polymers, electronic materials, fragrances and flavours). It employs around 29,000 people and had a turnover of just over 4.8 billion in 2006.
Imperial Airways: Imperial Airways was the early British commercial long range air transport company, operating from 1924 to 1939 and serving parts of Europe but especially the Empire routes to South Africa, India and the Far East. There were local partnership companies; Qantas (Queensland and Northern Territory Aerial Services Ltd) in Australia and TEAL (Tasman Empire Airways Ltd) in New Zealand.
Insanity defense: In criminal trials, the insanity defenses are possible defenses by excuse, an affirmative defense by which defendants argue that they should not be held criminally liable for breaking the law because they were legally insane at the time of the commission of alleged crimes. A defendant attempting such a defense will often be required to undergo a mental examination beforehand. The legal definition of "insane" is, in this context, quite different from psychiatric definitions of "mentally ill".
International Association of Travel Agents Network: International Airlines Travel Agent Network (IATAN) is an industry association designed to represent the interests of their member companies. In addition, they (along with the IATA) are the body responsible for the standard international codes for airlines, airports, hotels, cities, and car rental firms (for example, the three-digit codes that designate London Heathrow Airport as LHR). These codes provides a method to link international travel network with internations suppliers.
Ice age: The general term "ice age" or, more precisely, "glacial age" denotes a geological period of long-term reduction in the temperature of the Earth's surface and atmosphere, resulting in an expansion of continental ice sheets, polar ice sheets and alpine glaciers. An ice age is a natural system. Within a long-term ice age, individual pulses of extra cold climate are termed "glacial periods" (or alternatively "glacials" or "glaciations"), and intermittent warm periods are called "interglacials".
Insider trading: Insider trading is the trading of a corporation's stock or other securities by individuals with potential access to non-public information about the company. In most countries, trading by corporate insiders such as officers, key employees, directors, and large shareholders may be legal, if this trading is done in a way that does not take advantage of non-public information.
International Brigades: The International Brigades were military units made up of anti-fascist volunteers from different countries, who traveled to Spain to defend the Second Spanish Republic in the Spanish Civil War between 1936 and 1939. An estimated 32,000 people from a "claimed 53 nations" volunteered. They fought against rebel Spanish Nationalist forces, who were led by General Francisco Franco and assisted by German and Italian forces.
Food irradiation: Food irradiation is the process of exposing food to ionizing radiation to destroy microorganisms, bacteria, viruses, or insects that might be present in the food. Further applications include sprout inhibition, delay of ripening, increase of juice yield, and improvement of re-hydration. Irradiation is a more general term of deliberate exposure of materials to radiation to achieve a technical goal (in this context "ionizing radiation" is implied).
Irving Langmuir: Irving Langmuir (31 January 1881 - 16 August 1957) was an American chemist and physicist. His most noted publication was the famous 1919 article "The Arrangement of Electrons in Atoms and Molecules" in which, building on Gilbert N. Lewis's cubical atom theory and Walther Kossel's chemical bonding theory, he outlined his "concentric theory of atomic structure".
IUD with copper: An IUD with copper or intrauterine device is a long acting reversible contraceptive birth control device placed in the uterus, also known as an IUD or a coil (this colloquialism is based on the coil-shaped design of early IUDs). Dr. Ernst Grenberg of Germany invented an early IUD and was the first person to market these devices.
Isle Royale National Park: Isle Royale National Park is a U.S. National Park in the state of Michigan. Isle Royale, the largest island in Lake Superior, is over 45 miles (72 km) in length and 9 miles (14 km) wide at its widest point. The park is made of Isle Royale itself and approximately 400 smaller islands, along with any submerged lands within 4.5 miles (7.24 km) of the surrounding islands.
Integrated NATO Air Defense System: Integrated NATO Air Defense System or INADS was the NATO response to the Russian development of long range bombers in the 1950s. The need to maintain a credible deterrence when early warning and intercept times were massively reduced led to the development of an improved air defense (AD) system. Development was approved by the NATO Military Committee in December 1955. The system was to be based on four air defense regions (ADRs) coordinated by SACEUR (Supreme Allied Commander Europe).
Invisible balance: The Invisible Balance or Balance of Trade on Services is that part of the balance of trade that refers to services and other products that do not result in the transfer of physical objects. Examples include consulting services, shipping services, tourism, and patent license revenues. This figure is usually generated by tertiary industry. The term 'Invisible Balance' is especially common in the United Kingdom.
Irreducible complexity: Irreducible complexity (IC) is an argument by proponents of intelligent design that certain biological systems are too complex to have evolved from simpler, or "less complete" predecessors, through natural selection acting upon a series of advantageous naturally occurring chance mutations. It is one of two main arguments intended to support intelligent design, the other being specified complexity.
Arabian mythology: Arabian mythology comprises the ancient, pre-Islamic beliefs of the Arabs. Prior to Islam on the Arabian Peninsula in 622, the physical centre of Islam, the Kaaba of Mecca, was covered in symbols representing the myriad demons, djinn, demigods and other assorted creatures which represented the profoundly polytheistic environment of pre-Islamic Ancient Arabia. We can infer from this plurality an exceptionally broad context in which mythology could flourish.
Isabella d'Este: Isabella d'Este (18 May 1474-13 February 1539) was marchesa of Mantua and one of the leading women of the Italian Renaissance and a major cultural and political figure. She was the regent of Mantua during the absence of her spouse and the minority of her son.
International Refugee Organization: The International Refugee Organization (IRO) was founded on April 20, 1946 to deal with the massive refugee problem created by World War II. A Preparatory Commission began operations fourteen months previously. It was a United Nations specialized agency and took over many of the functions of the earlier United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. In 1952, its operations ceased, and it was replaced by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
ISO 4217: ISO 4217 is the international standard describing three-letter codes (also known as the currency code) to define the names of currencies established by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
International standard: International standards are standards developed by international standards organizations. International standards are available for consideration and use, worldwide. The most prominent organisation is the International Organization for Standardization. abhinav International standards may be used either by direct application or by a process of modifying an international standard to suit local conditions.
Imperial Conference: Imperial Conferences (Colonial Conferences before 1911) were periodic gatherings of government leaders from the self-governing colonies and dominions of the British Empire between 1887 and 1937, before the establishment of regular Meetings of Commonwealth Prime Ministers in 1944. They were held in 1887, 1894, 1897, 1902, 1907, 1911, 1921, 1923, 1926, 1930 and 1937. All but the second conference were held in London, the United Kingdom: the seat of the Empire.
Infrared spectroscopy: Infrared spectroscopy (IR spectroscopy) is the subset of spectroscopy that deals with the infrared region of the electromagnetic spectrum. It covers a range of techniques, the most common being a form of absorption spectroscopy. As with all spectroscopic techniques, it can be used to identify compounds and investigate sample composition. A common laboratory instrument that uses this technique is an infrared spectrophotometer.
Isoroku Yamamoto: Isoroku Yamamoto (4 April 1884-18 April 1943) was Naval Marshal General and the commander-in-chief of the Combined Fleet during World War II, a graduate of the Imperial Japanese Naval Academy and a student of the U.S. Naval War College and of Harvard University (1919-1921). Yamamoto held several important posts in the Imperial Japanese Navy, and undertook many of its changes and reorganizations, especially its development of naval aviation.
Irenaeus: Saint Irenaeus, (2nd century AD - c. 202) was a Christian Bishop of Lugdunum in Gaul, then a part of the Roman Empire. He was an early church father and apologist, and his writings were formative in the early development of Christian theology. He was a disciple of Polycarp, who in turn was a disciple of John the Evangelist. Irenaeus' best-known book, Adversus Haereses or Against Heresies (c.
Intermolecular force: In physics, chemistry, and biology, intermolecular forces are forces that act between stable molecules or between functional groups of macromolecules. Intermolecular forces include momentary attractions between molecules, diatomic free elements, and individual atoms. These forces, most notably London Dispersion forces, dipole-dipole interactions and hydrogen bonding, are significantly weaker than either ionic or covalent bonding, but still have a noticeable chemical effect.
Involuntary commitment: Involuntary commitment is the practice of using legal means or forms as part of a mental health law to commit a person to a mental hospital, insane asylum or psychiatric ward against their will and/or over their protests. Many countries have mental health laws governing involuntary commitment. Some, such as the United States, require a court hearing if the individual is hospitalized more than briefly.
Irgun: Irgun was a militant Zionist group that operated in the British mandate of Palestine between 1931 and 1948. It was an offshoot of the earlier and larger Jewish paramilitary organization Haganah . Since the group originally broke from the Haganah it became known as the Haganah Bet, or alternatively as Haganah Ha'leumit ( ) or Ha'ma'amad (&lrm). Irgun members were absorbed into the Israel Defence Forces at the start of the 1948 Arab-Israeli war.
Inheritance: Inheritance is the practice of passing on property, titles, debts, and obligations upon the death of an individual. It has long played an important role in human societies. The rules of inheritance differ between societies and have changed over time.
Idealism: Idealism is the philosophical theory that maintains that the ultimate nature of reality is based on the mind or ideas. In the philosophy of perception, idealism is contrasted with realism in which the external world is said to have an apparent absolute existence after which, and independent of completely, knowledge and consciousness. Epistemological idealists, it is claimed, might insist that the only things which can be directly known for certain are just ideas.
ISO 6166: ISO 6166 defines the structure of an International Securities Identifying Number. An ISIN uniquely identifies a fungible security. Securities with which ISINs can be used are Equities, Fixed income & ETF's only. ISINs consist of two alphabetic characters, which are the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code for the issuing country, nine alpha-numeric digits (the National Securities Identifying Number, or NSIN, which identifies the security), and one numeric check digit.
Ignatius of Antioch: Ignatius of Antioch (also known as Theophorus from Greek "God-bearer") (ca. 35 or 50-between 98 and 117) was among the Apostolic Fathers, was the third Bishop and Patriarch of Antioch, and was a student of John the Apostle. En route to his martyrdom in Rome, Ignatius wrote a series of letters which have been preserved as an example of very early Christian theology. Important topics addressed in these letters include ecclesiology, the sacraments, and the role of bishops.
ITU prefix: Unallocated: The following call sign prefixes are available for future allocation by the ITU. (x represents any letter; n represents any digit from 2-9. ) * E6, E8, E9, H5, J9, On, S4, T9*, Un, V9, Xn, YZ*, Z4-Z9, 4N*. (* Indicates a prefix that has recently been returned to the ITU. ) Unavailable: Under present ITU guidelines the following call sign prefixes shall not be allocated .
IBM PC keyboard: The IBM PC keyboard and its derivative computer keyboards are standardized. However, during the 20 years of the PC architecture being constantly updated, several types of keyboards have been developed.
List of Internet top-level domains: The following is a list of Internet top-level domains. The top-level domain article provides the background information. The official list of all top-level domains is maintained by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA).
Italian battleship Giulio Cesare: Giulio Cesare was an Italian Conte di Cavour-class battleship that served in the Regia Marina in both World Wars before joining the Soviet Navy as the Novorossiysk. Her keel was laid down on 24 June 1910 at Cantieri Ansaldo, Genoa. She was launched 15 October 1911, and construction was completed 14 May 1914. Giulio Cesare had no active missions during World War I. In 1923 she attacked the Greek island of Corfu, as a reaction against the killing of Italian representatives in Ioannina.
INS Vikrant R11: INS Vikrant (R11) (formerly HMS Hercules) was a Majestic-class light aircraft carrier of the Indian Navy. Her keel was laid down on 12 November 1943 by Vickers-Armstrong on the Tyne and she was launched on 22 September 1945.
Imperialism in Asia: Imperialism in Asia traces its roots back to the late fifteenth century with a series of voyages that sought a sea passage to India in the hope of establishing direct trade between Europe and Asia in spices. Before 1500 European economies were largely self-sufficient, only supplemented by minor trade with Asia and Africa.
Entropy information theory: In information theory, entropy is a measure of the uncertainty associated with a random variable. The term by itself in this context usually refers to the Shannon entropy, which quantifies, in the sense of an expected value, the information contained in a message, usually in units such as bits. Equivalently, the Shannon entropy is a measure of the average information content one is missing when one does not know the value of the random variable. The concept was introduced by Claude E.
Ithaca College: Ithaca College is a private college located on the South Hill of Ithaca, New York. The school was founded by William Egbert in 1892 as a conservatory of music. The college has a strong liberal arts core, but also offers several pre-professional programs and some graduate programs. The college is also known internationally for its communications program.
Individual differences psychology: Individual differences psychology focuses on this second level of study. It is also sometimes called Differential Psychology because researchers in this area study the ways in which individual people differ in their behavior. This is distinguished from other aspects of psychology in that although psychology is ostensibly a study of individuals, modern psychologists often study groups or biological underpinnings of cognition.
Israeli: Israeli may refer to: Something of, from, or related to the country of Israel Israelis, people from Israel, or of Israeli descent. For more information about the Israeli people, see: Demographics of Israel Culture of Israel For specific Israelis, see List of Israelis. Hebrew language See also Languages of Israel Israeli cuisine Israeli (newspaper), a free Israeli Hebrew newspaper distributed between 2006 and 2008. See also Israelites, the ancient people of the Land of Israel
Industrial and organizational psychology: Industrial and Organizational Psychology (also known as I-O psychology, industrial-organizational psychology, work psychology, organizational psychology, work and organizational psychology, industrial psychology, occupational psychology, personnel psychology or talent assessment) applies psychology to organizations and the workplace.
International Council of Unitarians and Universalists: The International Council of Unitarians and Universalists (ICUU) is a world council bringing together Unitarians, Universalists and Unitarian Universalists. The original initiative for its establishment was contained in a resolution of the General Assembly of Unitarian and Free Christian Churches of the United Kingdom in 1987.
Itanium: Itanium is a family of 64-bit Intel microprocessors that implement the Intel Itanium architecture (formerly called IA-64). The processors are marketed for use in enterprise servers and high-performance computing systems. The architecture originated at Hewlett-Packard (HP), and was later jointly developed by HP and Intel. Intended to push performance beyond existing designs, Itanium departed dramatically from Intel's legacy x86 and other architectures.
Integral domain: In abstract algebra, an integral domain is a commutative ring with 1 0 that has no zero divisors. Integral domains are generalizations of the integers and provide a natural setting for studying divisibility. An integral domain is a commutative domain with identity.
International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems: The International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (most commonly known by the abbreviation ICD) provides codes to classify diseases and a wide variety of signs, symptoms, abnormal findings, complaints, social circumstances, and external causes of injury or disease. Under this system, every health condition can be assigned to a unique category and given a code, up to six characters long. Such categories can include a set of similar diseases.
Infundibulum: An infundibulum (Latin for funnel; plural, infundibula) is a funnel-shape cavity or organ.
 skender kebap: skender kebab is one of the most famous meat foods of Northwestern Turkey and takes its name from its inventor, skender Efendi, who lived in Bursa in the late 19th century. It can be assumed to be derived from a verticalized version Ca Kebab, from Erzurum. It is a kind of der kebab prepared from thinly cut grilled lamb or beef basted with tomato sauce over pieces of pide bread and generously slathered with melted butter and yogurt.
Interrupt latency: In real-time operating systems, interrupt latency is the time between the generation of an interrupt by a device and the servicing of the device which generated the interrupt. For many operating systems, devices are serviced as soon as the device's interrupt handler is executed. Interrupt latency may be affected by interrupt controllers, interrupt masking, and the operating system's (OS) interrupt handling methods.
Infanticide: Infanticide is the practice of intentionally killing an infant. Often it is the mother who commits the act, but criminology recognizes various forms of non-maternal child murder. In many past societies, certain forms of infanticide were considered permissible. Female infanticide is more common than the killing of male offspring due to sex-selective infanticide.
Internet Protocol Suite: The Internet Protocol Suite (commonly known as TCP/IP) is the set of communications protocols used for the Internet and other similar networks. It is named from two of the most important protocols in it: the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and the Internet Protocol (IP), which were the first two networking protocols defined in this standard.
LGBT topics and Islam: Islamic views on homosexuality are influenced by the rulings prescribed by the Qur'an and the teachings of the Islamic prophet Muhammed. The mainstream interpretation of Qur'anic verses and hadith condemn sexual acts between members of the same sex. In this Islam resembles other Abrahamic religions such as Judaism and Christianity. The Qur'an cites the story of the "people of Lot" (also known as the Sodomites) who were destroyed by the wrath of Allah because they engaged in homosexual acts.
IDF: IDF or idf may stand for: "idf" can be: short for "identifier" short for ""
Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi: Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi (d. May 10, 2009) ( ) was a Libyan paramilitary trainer for Al-Qaeda. After being captured and interrogated by the American and Egyptian forces, the information he gave under torture was cited by the George W. Bush Administration in the months preceding the 2003 invasion of Iraq as evidence of a connection between Saddam Hussein and al-Qaeda.
International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement: The International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement is an international humanitarian movement with approximately 97 million volunteers worldwide which started to protect human life and health, to ensure respect for the human being, and to prevent and alleviate human suffering, without any discrimination based on nationality, race, sex, religious beliefs, class or political opinions.
Integer factorization: In number theory, integer factorization or prime factorization is the breaking down of a composite number into smaller non-trivial divisors, which when multiplied together equal the original integer. When the numbers are very large, no efficient integer factorization algorithm is publicly known; an effort concluded 2010 by several researchers factored a 232-digit number utilizing hundreds of machines over a span of 2 years.
Imperial units: Imperial units or the imperial system is a system of units, first defined in the British Weights and Measures Act of 1824, later refined (until 1959) and reduced. The system came into official use across the British Empire. By the late 20th century most nations of the former empire had officially adopted the metric system as their main system of measurement.
Incompatible-properties argument: The Incompatible-properties argument is the idea that no description of God is consistent with reality. For example, if one takes the definition of God to be described fully from the Bible, then the claims of what properties God has described therein might be argued to lead to a contradiction.
Ira Gershwin: Ira Gershwin (December 6, 1896 - August 17, 1983) was an American lyricist who collaborated with his younger brother, composer George Gershwin, to create some of the most memorable songs of the 20th century. With George he wrote more than a dozen Broadway shows, featuring songs such as "I Got Rhythm", "Embraceable You", "The Man I Love" and "Someone to Watch Over Me", and the opera Porgy and Bess.
International Society of Olympic Historians: The International Society of Olympic Historians (ISOH) is a non-profit organization founded in 1991 with the purpose of promoting and studying the Olympic Movement and the Olympic Games. The majority of recent books on the Olympic Games have been written by ISOH members. The ISOH publishes the Journal of Olympic History (JOH, formerly Citius, Altius, Fortius) three times a year.
Serie A: Serie A, currently called Serie A TIM due to sponsorship Telecom Italia Mobile, is a professional league competition for football clubs located at the top echelon of the Italian football league system and has been operating for over eighty years since 1929. It had been organized by Lega Calcio until 2010, but a new league like the English Premier League is scheduled to be created for the 2010-11 season. It is regarded as one of the most elite leagues of the footballing world.
Inhalant: Inhalants are a broad range of drugs in the forms of gases, aerosols, or solvents that are breathed in and absorbed through the lungs. While some inhalant drugs are used for medical purposes, as in the case of nitrous oxide (a dental anaesthetic), this article focuses on the non-medical use of inhalants, as recreational drugs that are used for their intoxicating effect.
Indus River: The Indus River is a major river which flows through Pakistan. Originating in the Tibetan plateau in the vicinity of Lake Mansarovar in Tibet Autonomous Region, the river runs a course through the Ladakh district of Jammu and Kashmir and then enters Northern Areas, flowing through the North in a southerly direction along the entire length of the country, to merge into the Arabian Sea near port city of Karachi in Sindh.
Iceman comics: Iceman (Robert "Bobby" Louis Drake) is a fictional Marvel Comics superhero, a member of the X-Men. Created by writer Stan Lee and artist/co-writer Jack Kirby, he first appeared in X-Men (vol. 1) #1,. A mutant, Iceman has the ability of cryokinesis where he can freeze anything around him and can also turn his body into ice. Although he is an Omega-level mutant, Drake has yet to tap his full mutant potential. He has, however, begun to take more interest over the years in developing his abilities.
Isidore of Seville: Saint Isidore of Seville (c. 560 - 4 April 636) was Archbishop of Seville for more than three decades and is considered, as the historian Montalembert put it in an oft-quoted phrase, "le dernier savant du monde ancien" ("the last scholar of the ancient world"). Indeed, all the later medieval history-writing of Hispania were based on his histories.
Industrial espionage: Industrial espionage or corporate espionage is espionage conducted for commercial purposes instead of national security purposes. The term is distinct from legal and ethical activities such as examining corporate publications, websites, patent filings, and the like to determine the activities of a corporation (this is normally referred to as competitive intelligence). Theoretically the difference between espionage and legal information gathering is clear.
Isaac Bashevis Singer: Isaac Bashevis Singer (November 21, 1902 - July 24, 1991) was a Polish-born Jewish American author noted for his short stories. He was one of the leading figures in the Yiddish literary movement, and received the Nobel Prize in literature in 1978.
Islamic eschatology: Islamic eschatology is concerned with the al-Qiymah "Last Judgement". Eschatology relates to one of the six (five according to Sha traditions) articles of faith of Islam according to the Sunni traditions.
Compounds of carbon: There is an immense number of distinct compounds that contain carbon atoms. Some sources suggest that there are about ten million known compounds. However, it is possible that the number is greater.
ITSO: ITSO may stand for: the British Integrated Transport Smartcard Organisation the International Telecommunications Satellite Organization, an intergovernmental consortium the Information Technology Student Organization, a student organization at Rochester Institute of Technology the International Technical Support Organization, the IBM group that produces IBM Redbooks.
Intelsat: Intelsat, Ltd. is a communications satellite services provider. Originally formed as International Telecommunications Satellite Organization (INTELSAT), it was an intergovernmental consortium owning and managing a constellation of communications satellites providing international broadcast services. As of 2007, Intelsat owns and operates a fleet of 51 communications satellites. In June 2007 BC Partners announced they had acquired 76 percent of Intelsat for about 3.75 billion euros.
Indian numerals: The five Indian languages that have adapted the Devanagari script to their use also naturally employ the numeral symbols above; of course, the names for the numbers vary by language. The table below presents a listing of the symbols used in various modern Indian scripts for the numbers from zero to nine: Note: The symbols for zero in Tamil and Malayalam are modern innovations. Unicode 4.1 and later define encodings for them.
Id Software: id Software is an American video game development company from Mesquite, Texas. The company was founded in 1991 by four members of the computer company Softdisk: programmers John Carmack and John Romero, game designer Tom Hall, and artist Adrian Carmack (no relation to John Carmack). It was considered the most influential of the many game development companies in the Dallas area, known as the Dallas Gaming Mafia. On June 24, 2009 ZeniMax Media acquired the company.
Ian Botham: Sir Ian Terence Botham, OBE (born 24 November 1955) is a former England Test cricketer and Test team captain, and current cricket commentator. He was a genuine all-rounder with 14 centuries and 383 wickets in Test cricket, and remains well known by his nickname "Beefy" While a controversial player both on and off the field at times, Botham also held a number of Test cricket records, and still holds the record for the highest number of wickets taken by an England bowler.
Integral: Integration is an important concept in mathematics and, together with differentiation, is one of the two main operations in calculus. Given a function of a real variable x and an interval [a, b] of the real line, the definite integral is defined informally to be the net signed area of the region in the xy-plane bounded by the graph of , the x-axis, and the vertical lines x = a and x = b.
List of airports: List of airports is an organized list of airports. Due to the size of the list it has been broken down into: Lists of military bases By country: see By metropolitan area: see Worldwide list of airports with scheduled commercial service, see: Airline destinations List of eponyms of airports (airports named after people) Lists of the busiest airports: by air traffic, by passengers, by international passengers, or by cargo.
Zionist political violence: Zionist political violence refers to acts of violence committed by Zionists for political reasons, most famously to advance the creation and later protection of a Jewish state in Palestine. Actions were carried out in the British Mandate of Palestine by individuals and Jewish paramilitary groups such as the Haganah, the Irgun, the Lehi and the Palmah as part of a conflict between Zionists and the British and Arabs, about land, immigration, and national aspirations.
Inclusion body myositis: Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is an inflammatory muscle disease, characterized by slowly progressive weakness and wasting of both distal and proximal muscles, most apparent in the muscles of the arms and legs. There are two types - sporadic inclusion body myositis (sIBM) and hereditary inclusion body myopathy (hIBM). In sporadic inclusion body myositis [MY-oh-sigh-tis] muscle, two processes, one autoimmune and the other degenerative, appear to occur in the muscle cells in parallel.
Isaac Stern: This article is about the american violinist. For the accountant to Oskar Schindler, see Itzhak Stern. Isaac Stern was a Ukrainian-born violin virtuoso. He was renowned for his recordings and for discovering new musical talent.
Ion implantation: Ion implantation is a materials engineering process by which ions of a material can be implanted into another solid, thereby changing the physical properties of the solid. Ion implantation is used in semiconductor device fabrication and in metal finishing, as well as various applications in materials science research.
John Woo: John Woo Yu-Sen (born 1 May 1946) is a Chinese film director and producer from Hong Kong. Recognized for his stylized films of highly choreographed action sequences, Mexican standoffs, and use of slow-motion, Woo has directed several notable Hong Kong action films, among them, A Better Tomorrow, Hard Boiled, and The Killer. His Hollywood films include Windtalkers, Hard Target, Broken Arrow, Face/Off, and '. He also created the comic series Seven Brothers, published by Virgin Comics.
Demographics of Japan: The demographic features of the population of Japan include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. As of March 2009, Japan's population is 127,076,183, making it the world's tenth most populated country. Its size can be attributed to fast growth rates experienced during the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Politics of Japan: The politics of Japan is conducted in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic monarchy, where Prime Minister of Japan is the head of government. Japanese politics uses a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in the Diet, with the House of Representatives and the House of Councillors. The Judiciary system of Japan is an independent entity.
Japan: Japan (, Nihon or Nippon, officially or Nihon-koku) is an island country in East Asia. Located in the Pacific Ocean, it lies to the east of the Sea of Japan, China, North Korea, South Korea and Russia, stretching from the Sea of Okhotsk in the north to the East China Sea and Taiwan in the south. The characters which make up Japan's name mean "sun-origin", which is why Japan is sometimes called as the "Land of the Rising Sun". Japan is an archipelago of 6,852 islands.
Communications in Japan: Telephones and ISDN - main lines in use: 52.398 million (2007)
Economy of Japan: The economy of Japan is the second largest in the world, after the United States at $5.07 trillion in terms of nominal GDP and third after the United States and China when adjusted for purchasing power parity. The workers of Japan rank 18th in the world in GDP per hour worked as of 2006. The Big Mac Index shows that the wages in Tokyo are the highest among principal cities in the world.
Transport in Japan: Transportation in Japan is modern and infrastructure spending has been large. Japan's road spending has also been large.. The 1.2 million kilometers of paved road are the main means of transportation. Japan has left-hand traffic. A single network of high-speed, divided, limited-access toll roads connects major cities and are operated by toll-collecting enterprises.
Foreign relations of Japan: Since the surrender after World War II and the return to the international community by the Treaty of San Francisco, Japanese diplomatic policy has been based on close partnership with the United States and the emphasis on the international cooperation such as the United Nations. In the Cold War, Japan took a part in the Western world's confrontation of the Soviet Union in East Asia.
Jung disambiguation: Carl Jung (1875-1961) was a Swiss psychiatrist, an influential thinker and the founder of analytical psychology. Jung may also refer to: Jung (surname) JUNG, Java Universal Network/Graph Framework Onomonopia for the sound made from a low, muted, power chord on a distorted guitar
JFK disambiguation: JFK are the initials of John F. Kennedy, 35th President of the United States.
Joshua Jackson: Joshua Jackson (born June 11, 1978) is a Canadian-American actor. He has appeared in primetime television and in over 32 film roles. He is known for playing Charlie Conway in The Mighty Ducks film series, Pacey Witter in the television series Dawson's Creek and Peter Bishop in the television series Fringe.
John Ray: John Ray (November 29, 1627 - January 17, 1705) was an English naturalist, sometimes referred to as the father of English natural history. Until 1670, he wrote his name as John Wray. From then on, he used 'Ray', after "having ascertained that such had been the practice of his family before him". He published important works on plants, animals, and natural theology. His classification of plants in his Historia Plantarum, was an important step towards modern taxonomy.
James Joyce: James Augustine Aloysius Joyce (2 February 1882 - 13 January 1941) was an Irish writer and poet, widely considered to be one of the most influential writers of the 20th century. Along with Marcel Proust, Virginia Woolf, and many others, Joyce was a key figure in the development of the modernist novel. He is best known for his landmark novel Ulysses (1922).
Geography of Japan: Location: Eastern Asia, island chain between the North Pacific Ocean and the Sea of Japan, east of the Korean Peninsula. Map references: Asia Area: total: 377,835 km land: 374,744 km water: 3,091 km notes: Includes the Bonin Islands, Dait-shot, Marcus Island, Okino-tori-shima, the Ryukyu Islands, and the Volcano Islands. Ownership of the Liancourt Rocks is in dispute.
Judo: Judo or Jd (jd, meaning "gentle way") is a modern Japanese martial art and combat sport, that originated in Japan in the late nineteenth century. Its most prominent feature is its competitive element, where the object is to either throw one's opponent to the ground, immobilize or otherwise subdue one's opponent with a grappling manoeuvre, or force an opponent to submit by joint locking the elbow or by executing a choke.
James Bond: James Bond 007 is a fictional character created in 1953 by writer Ian Fleming, who featured him in twelve novels and two short story collections. The character has also been used in the longest running and most financially successful English-language film franchise to date, starting in 1962 with Dr. No. After Fleming's death in 1964, subsequent James Bond novels were written by Kingsley Amis, John Gardner, Raymond Benson and Sebastian Faulks.
Johnny Got His Gun: Johnny Got His Gun is an anti-war novel written in 1938 (published 1939) by American novelist and screenwriter Dalton Trumbo
Simon-Ehrlich wager: Julian L. Simon and Paul Ehrlich entered in a famous wager in 1980, betting on a mutually agreed upon measure of resource scarcity over the decade leading up to 1990. Simon had Ehrlich choose five of several commodity metals. Ehrlich chose 5 metals: copper, chromium, nickel, tin, and tungsten. Simon bet that their prices would go down. Ehrlich bet they would go up.
Japanese language: Japanese is a language spoken by over 130 million people in Japan and in Japanese emigrant communities. It is a member of the Japonic (or Japanese-Ryukyuan) language family. There are a number of proposed relationships with other languages, but none of them has gained unanimous acceptance. Japanese is an agglutinative language.
John Tenniel: Sir John Tenniel (28 February 1820 - 25 February 1914) was an English illustrator. He drew many topical cartoons and caricatures for Punch in the late 19th century, including the iconic dropping the pilot, but is best remembered today for his illustrations in Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass.
Jazz: Jazz is a music genre that originated at the beginning of the 20th century in African American communities in the Southern United States from a confluence of African and European music traditions. From its early development until the present, jazz has incorporated music from 19th and 20th century American popular music. Its West African pedigree is evident in its use of blue notes, improvisation, polyrhythms, syncopation, and the swung note.
Jonathan Swift: Jonathan Swift (30 November 1667 - 19 October 1745) was an Anglo-Irish satirist, essayist, political pamphleteer (first for the Whigs, then for the Tories), poet and cleric who became Dean of St. Patrick's, Dublin. He is remembered for works such as Gulliver's Travels, A Modest Proposal, A Journal to Stella, Drapier's Letters, The Battle of the Books, An Argument Against Abolishing Christianity, and A Tale of a Tub.
John Grierson: John Grierson (26 April 1898 - 19 February 1972) is often considered the father of British and Canadian documentary film.
Jello Biafra: Eric Reed Boucher (born June 17, 1958), more widely known by the stage name Jello Biafra, is an American musician, spoken word artist and leading figure of the Green Party. Biafra first gained attention as the lead singer and songwriter for San Francisco punk rock band Dead Kennedys. After his time with the band concluded, he took over the influential independent record label Alternative Tentacles, founded in 1979 by him and Dead Kennedys bandmate East Bay Ray.
James Cameron: James Francis Cameron (born August 16, 1954) is a Canadian film director, producer, screenwriter, editor, and inventor. His writing and directing work includes The Terminator (1984), Aliens (1986), The Abyss (1989), ' (1991), True Lies (1994), Titanic (1997), and Avatar (2009). In the time between making Titanic and his return to feature films with Avatar, Cameron spent some years creating documentary films, and also co-developing the digital 3-D Fusion Camera System.
Judaism: Judaism is a set of beliefs and practices originating in the Hebrew Bible, also known as the Tanakh, and explored in later texts such as the Talmud. Jews consider Judaism to be the expression of the covenantal relationship God developed with the Children of Israel- originally a group of around a dozen tribes claiming descent from the Biblical patriarch Jacob- and later, the Jewish people.
Java disambiguation: Java is the most populous island in Indonesia. Java may also refer to:
John Stuart Mill: John Stuart Mill (20 May 1806 - 8 May 1873), English philosopher, political theorist, political economist, civil servant and Member of Parliament, was an influential British Classical liberal thinker of the 19th century whose works on liberty justified freedom of the individual in opposition to unlimited state control. He was a proponent of utilitarianism, an ethical theory developed by Jeremy Bentham, although his conception of it was very different from Bentham's.
Junk science: Junk science is a term used in U.S. political and legal disputes that brands an advocate's claims about scientific data, research, or analyses as spurious. The term may convey a pejorative connotation that the advocate is driven by political, ideological, financial, or other unscientific motives. The term was first used in relation to expert testimony in civil litigation.
James Cook: Captain James Cook FRS RN (7 November 1728 - 14 February 1779) was an English explorer, navigator and cartographer, ultimately rising to the rank of Captain in the Royal Navy. Cook was the first to map Newfoundland prior to making three voyages to the Pacific Ocean during which he achieved the first European contact with the eastern coastline of Australia and the Hawaiian Islands as well as the first recorded circumnavigation of New Zealand.
John Baskerville: John Baskerville (28 January 1706 - 8 January 1775) was an English businessman, in areas including japanning and papier-mh, but he is best remembered as a printer and typographer.
John Young: John Young may refer to: In people: J. Smith Young (1834-1916), American politician John A.
Johnny Unitas: John Constantine "Johnny" Unitas (May 7, 1933 - September 11, 2002), nicknamed the Golden Arm and often called Johnny U, was a professional American football player in the 1950s through the 1970s, spending the majority of his career with the Baltimore Colts. He was a record-setting quarterback, and the National Football League's most valuable player in 1959, 1964 and 1967. His record of throwing a touchdown pass in 47 consecutive games (between 1956-1960) remains unsurpassed as of 2009.
January: January (pronunciation) is the first month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars, and one of seven Gregorian months with the length of 31 days. The first day of the month is known as New Year's Day. It is, on average, the coldest month of the year within most of the Northern Hemisphere and the warmest month of the year within most of the Southern Hemisphere.
Joseph Stalin: Joseph Vissarionovich Stalin (born Ioseb Besarionis dze Jughashvili in Georgian or Iosif Vissarionovich Dzhugashvili in Russian patronymic nomenclature; 18 December 1878 - 5 March 1953) was the first General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union's Central Committee from 1922 until his death in 1953. In the years following Lenin's death in 1924, he rose to become the leader of the Soviet Union.
John Jacob Astor: John Jacob Astor (July 17, 1763 - March 29, 1848), born Johann Jakob or Johann Jacob Astor, was the first prominent member of the Astor family and the first multi-millionaire in the United States. He was the creator of the first trust in America, from which he made his fortune in fur trading, real estate, and opium.
Julian calendar: The Julian calendar, a reform of the Roman calendar, was introduced by Julius Caesar in 46 BC, and came into force in 45 BC. It was chosen after consultation with the astronomer Sosigenes of Alexandria and was probably designed to approximate the tropical year, known at least since Hipparchus. It has a regular year of 365 days divided into 12 months, and a leap day is added to February every four years. Hence the Julian year is on average 365.25 days long.
John Wyndham: John Wyndham was the pen name used by the often post-apocalyptic English science fiction writer John Wyndham Parkes Lucas Beynon Harris (10 July 1903 - 11 March 1969). Early in his career, Wyndham used various other combinations of his names, such as "John Beynon" or "Lucas Parkes".
John Quincy Adams: John Quincy Adams (July 11, 1767 - February 23, 1848) was the sixth President of the United States from March 4, 1825, to March 4, 1829. He was also an American diplomat and served in both the Senate and House of Representatives. He was a member of the Federalist, Democratic-Republican, National Republican, and later Anti-Masonic and Whig parties. Adams was the son of President John Adams and his wife Abigail Adams.
Jeep: Jeep is an automobile marque (and registered trademark) of Chrysler. It is the oldest off-road vehicle (also sport utility vehicle - SUV) brand, with Land Rover coming in second. The original vehicle which first appeared as the prototype Bantam BRC became the primary light 4-wheel-drive vehicle of the US Army and allies during the World War II and postwar period. Many vehicles serving similar military and civilian roles have since been created by many nations.
Jerzy Kosinski: Jerzy Kosiski (June 14, 1933 - May 3, 1991) was an award-winning Polish-American novelist, best known for the novels The Painted Bird (1965) and Being There (1971), the latter of which was adapted into a film in 1979.
Jurassic: The Jurassic is a geologic period and system that extends from about 199.6&plusmn; 0.6 Ma (million years ago) to 145.5&plusmn; 4 Ma, that is, from the end of the Triassic to the beginning of the Cretaceous. The Jurassic constitutes the middle period of the Mesozoic Era, also known as the "Age of Reptiles". The start of the period is marked by the major Triassic-Jurassic extinction event. However the end of the Jurassic Period did not witness any major extinction event.
History of Jamaica: Jamaica, the 3rd largest Caribbean island, was inhabited by Arawak natives. When Christopher Columbus arrived at the island, he claimed the land for Spain. Still, it was not truly colonized until after his death. But only a few decades after Columbus' death almost all Arawaks were disappearing. Spain held the island against many buccaneer raids at the main city, which is now called Spanish Town.
Demographics of Jamaica: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Jamaica, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Jamaica: The Politics of Jamaica takes place in a framework of a representative parliamentary democratic monarchy. The 1962 Constitution established a parliamentary system based on the United Kingdom model. As chief of state, Queen Elizabeth II appoints a governor general, on the advice of the prime minister, as her representative in Jamaica. The governor general's role is largely ceremonial. Executive power is vested in the cabinet, led by the Prime Minister.
Economy of Jamaica: Jamaica has natural resources, primarily bauxite, and an ideal climate conducive to agriculture and tourism. The discovery of bauxite in the 1940s and the subsequent establishment of the bauxite-alumina industry shifted Jamaica's economy from sugar and bananas. By the 1970s, Jamaica had emerged as a world leader in export of these minerals as foreign investment increased. The country faces some serious problems but has the potential for growth and modernization.
Transport in Jamaica: Transport in Jamaica consists of roadways, railways, ship and air transport, with roadways forming the backbone of the island's internal transport system.
Military of Jamaica: Jamaican Defence Forces Military manpower Military age18 years of age Availabilitymales age 15-49:747,043 (2002 est. ) Fit for military service males age 15-49: 523,550 (2002 est. ) Reaching military age annually males: 27,729 (2002 est. ) Military expenditures Dollar figure$30 million (FY95/96 est. ) Percent of GDPNA%(FY2002 est.)
Jamaica: Jamaica is an island nation of the Greater Antilles, 234 kilometres (145 mi) in length and as much as 80 kilometres (50 mi) in width, amounting to 11,100 km. It is situated in the Caribbean Sea, about 145 kilometres (90 mi) south of Cuba, and 190 kilometres (120 mi) west of Hispaniola, the island harboring the nation-states Haiti and the Dominican Republic.
Foreign relations of Jamaica: Jamaica has diplomatic relations with most nations and is a member of the United Nations and the Organization of American States. In the follow-on meetings to the December 1994 Summit of the Americas, Jamaicatogether with Uruguay--was given the responsibility of coordinating discussions on invigorating society. Jamaica also chairs the Working Group on smaller Economies. Jamaica is an active member of the Commonwealth of Nations and the Non-Aligned Movement (G-77).
Geography of Jamaica: Jamaica lies 90 miles (140 km) south of Cuba and 118 miles (190 km) west of Haiti. At its greatest extent, Jamaica is 146 miles (235 km) long, and it varies between 21 and 52 miles (34 and 84 km) wide. With an area of 10,911 square kilometres, Jamaica is the largest island of the Commonwealth Caribbean and the third largest of the Greater Antilles, after Cuba and Hispaniola. Along the south coast are a number of small islands, such as the Port Royal Cays.
Science and technology in Jamaica: Since the late 1990s, donovan anderson has been found gay with Tyler Troia the Jamaican government has set an agenda to push the development of technology in Jamaica. The goal is to make Jamaica a significant player in the arena of information technology.
Jan Mayen: Jan Mayen Island is a volcanic island in the Arctic Ocean, 55 km (34 miles) long (southwest-northeast) and 373 km in area, partly covered by glaciers (an area of 114.2 km around the Beerenberg). It has two parts: larger northeast Nord-Jan and smaller S-Jan, linked by an isthmus 2.5 km (1.6 mi) wide. It lies 600 km (about 400 mi) northeast of Iceland, 500 km (about 300 mi) east of central Greenland and 1,000 km (about 600 mi) west of the North Cape, Norway.
History of Jersey: The island of Jersey and the other Channel Islands represent the last remnants of the medieval Duchy of Normandy that held sway in both France and England. Jersey lies in the Bay of Mont St Michel and is the largest of the Channel Islands. It has enjoyed self-government since the division of the Duchy of Normandy in 1204.
Jersey: The Bailiwick of Jersey is a British Crown Dependency off the coast of Normandy, France. As well as the island of Jersey itself, the bailiwick includes two groups of small islands which are no longer permanently inhabited, the Minquiers and rous, and the Pierres de Lecq and other rocks and reefs. Together with the bailiwick of Guernsey, it forms the grouping known as the Channel Islands.
Geography of Jersey: This article describes the geography of Jersey, an island territory in the English Channel. The island of Jersey has an area of 116 square kilometres, with 70 kilometres of coastline. Jersey claims a territorial sea of 3 nautical miles and an exclusive fishing zone of 12 nm. Jersey is the largest and southernmost of the Channel Islands. It is located north of Brittany and west of the Cotentin Peninsula in Normandy. About 30% of the population of the island is concentrated in Saint Helier.
Demographics of Jersey: Population: 90,800 (June 2008 est. ) 87,186 (2001 census) (88,200 - 2006 est. ) Age structure: 0-14 years: 18% (male 8,140; female 7,563) 15-64 years: 68% (male 30,036; female 30,329) 65 years and over: 14% (male 5,454; female 7,393) (2000 est. ) Population growth rate: 0.49% (average 1991-2005) Birth rate: 11.0 births/1,000 population (2005) Death rate: 8.5 deaths/1,000 population (2005) Net immigration rate: 2.81 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2000 est.
Politics of Jersey: Politics of the Bailiwick of Jersey takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic British Crown Dependency, whereby the Chief Minister of Jersey is the head of government. The government of Jersey is composed of the Queen of the United Kingdom, the Lieutenant Governor of Jersey, the Bailiff, the Assembly of the States, and since December 2005, the Chief Minister of Jersey and his cabinet.
Jarvis Island: Jarvis Island (formerly known as Bunker Island) is an uninhabited 4.5 square kilometer (1.75 sq. mile) coral island located in the South Pacific Ocean at 022S 16001W; / ;0.367 160.017; / -0.367; -160.017Coordinates: 022S 16001W; / ;0.367 160.017; / -0.367; -160.017, about halfway between Hawaii and the Cook Islands.
Transport in Jersey: Airports: Jersey Airport
Geography of Jordan: Jordan is situated in Southwest Asia, northwest of Saudi Arabia. The territory of Jordan covers about 91,880 square kilometers. Until 1988, when King Hussein relinquished Jordan's claim to the West Bank, that area was considered part of Jordan, although officially recognized as such by only the United Kingdom and Pakistan.
Johnston Atoll: Johnston Atoll is a 50-square-mile (130 km) atoll in the North Pacific Ocean about 1400 km west of Hawaii. There are four islands located on the coral reef platform, two natural islands, Johnston Island and Sand Island, which have been expanded by coral dredging, as well as North Island (Akau) and East Island (Hikina), an additional two artificial islands formed by coral dredging. Johnston is an unincorporated territory of the United States, administered by the U.S.
Demographics of Jordan: Population: 6,198,677 (July 2008 est. ) Population growth rate: 2.338% (2008 est. ) Birth rate: 20.13 births/1,000 population (2008 est. ) Death rate: 2.72 deaths/1,000 population (2008 est. ) Net migration rate: 5.97 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2008 est. ) Age structure: 0-14 years: 32.2% (male 1,017,233/female 976,284) 15-64 years: 62.4% (male 2,110,293/female 1,840,531) 65 years and over: 4.1% (male 122,975/female 131,361) (2008 est.
Politics of Jordan: Politics of Jordan takes place in a framework of a parliamentary monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Jordan is head of government, and of a multi-party system. Jordan is a constitutional monarchy based on the constitution promulgated on January 8, 1952.
Telecommunications in Jordan: Jordan has a highly developed communications infrastructure. Jordan's telecom infrastructure is growing at a very rapid pace and continually being updated and expanded. Jordan's telecom industry remains the most competitive in the Middle East. Communications in Jordan occur across many media, including telephone, radio, television, and internet.
Telecommunications in Jersey: File:Wiki letter w. svg Please help improve this article by expanding it. Further information might be found on the talk page. Communications in Jersey relates to telecommunications in Jersey. Telephones - main lines in use: approx 58,320 Telephones - mobile cellular: Jersey Telecom, sure (Cable and Wireless) and Airtel-Vodafone. Approx 180k issued SIMs.
Foreign relations of Jordan: The foreign relations of Jordan have consistently followed a pro-Western foreign policy and traditionally Jordan has had close relations with the United States and the United Kingdom. These relations were damaged when Jordan proclaimed its neutrality during the Gulf War and maintained relations with Iraq. In public, Jordan continued to call for the lifting of UN sanctions against Iraq within the context of implementing UNIC resolutions.
Johannes Kepler: Johannes Kepler (December 27, 1571 - November 15, 1630) was a German mathematician, astronomer and astrologer, and key figure in the 17th century scientific revolution. He is best known for his eponymous laws of planetary motion, codified by later astronomers based on his works Astronomia nova, Harmonices Mundi, and Epitome of Copernican Astronomy. They also provided one of the foundations for Isaac Newton's theory of universal gravitation.
John Bardeen: John Bardeen (May 23, 1908 - January 30, 1991) was an American physicist and electrical engineer, the only person to have ever won the Nobel Prize in Physics twice: first in 1956 with William Shockley and Walter Brattain for the invention of the transistor; and again in 1972 with Leon Neil Cooper and John Robert Schrieffer for a fundamental theory of conventional superconductivity known as the BCS theory.
Juan de Nova Island: Juan de Nova Island is a 4.4 km low, flat, tropical island in the narrowest part of the Mozambique Channel, about one-third of the way between Madagascar and Mozambique at 170316S 424330E; / ;17.05444 42.725; / -17.05444; 42.725Coordinates: 170316S 424330E; / ;17.05444 42.725; / -17.05444; 42.725. Anchorage is possible off the northeast of the island which also has a 1,300-metre-long airstrip.
Jewellery: Jewellery (or /ulri/) or jewelry signifies items of personal adornment, such as necklaces, rings, brooches, earrings and bracelets. Jewellery may be made from any material, such as gemstones, precious metals or shells, besides other materials, depending on cultural differences and availability of materials. Jewellery may be appreciated because of geometric or other patterns, or meaningful symbols. (Items such as belts and handbags etc.
Jim Jarmusch: James R. "Jim" Jarmusch (born January 22, 1953) is an American independent filmmaker. Jarmusch is a major proponent of independent cinema, particularly during the 1980s and 1990s.
Jan Berglin: Jan Berglin (born March 24, 1960) is a Swedish cartoonist who made his debut in the Uppsala student newspaper Ergo in 1985. After completing his studies, Berglin has been living in Gle where he works as a teacher of Swedish and religion. He published his early strips in the local social democratic newspaper Arbetarbladet, but became known to a wider audience in 1995, when he started to draw for the Stockholm-based but nationally distributed conservative newspaper Svenska Dagbladet.
Economy of Jordan: Hashemite File:Flag of Jordan.
Johannes Gutenberg: Johannes Gensfleisch zur Laden zum Gutenberg (<abbr title="circa">c. </abbr> 1398 - February 3, 1468) was a German goldsmith and printer who is credited with being the first European to use movable type printing, in around 1439, and the global inventor of the mechanical printing press. His major work, the Gutenberg Bible (also known as the 42-line Bible), has been acclaimed for its high aesthetic and technical quality.
Josef Terboven: Josef Antonius Heinrich Terboven (May 23, 1898 - May 8, 1945) was a Nazi leader, best known as the Reichskommissar during the German military occupation of Norway.
Jacques Mayol: Jacques Mayol (April 1, 1927 - December 22, 2001) was the holder of many world records in free diving. Jacques Mayol was a French national born in Shanghai, China. He was the first free diver to descend to 100 meters (330 ft) (November 23, 1976), and he managed to descend to 105 meters when he was 56 years old.
Jon Postel: Jonathan Bruce Postel (August 6, 1943 - October 16, 1998) made many significant contributions to the development of the Internet, particularly with respect to standards. He is known principally for being the Editor of the Request for Comment (RFC) document series, and for administering the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority until his death. The Internet Society's Postel Award is named in his honor, as is the Postel Center at Information Sciences Institute.
James Brown: James Brown (born James Joseph Brown, Jr. ) (May 3, 1933 - December 25, 2006) was an American singer and entertainer. Referred to as "The Godfather of Soul", Brown is recognized as one of the most influential figures in the 20th century popular music and was renowned for his vocals and feverish dancing. He was also called "the hardest working man in show business". As a prolific singer, songwriter, dancer and bandleader, Brown was a pivotal force in the music industry.
Joyce K. Reynolds: Joyce K. Reynolds is a computer scientist. Reynolds holds bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Southern California, United States. She has been active in the development of the protocols underlying the Internet. In particular, she has authored or co-authored many RFCs, most notably those introducing and specifying the Telnet protocol.
Johannes Rau: Johannes Rau (16 January 1931 - 27 January 2006) was a German politician of the SPD. He was President of Germany from 1 July 1999, until 30 June 2004, and Prime Minister of North Rhine-Westphalia from 1978 to 1998.
Jackson: Jackson may refer to:
Jules Verne: Jules Gabriel Verne (8 February 1828 - 24 March 1905) was a French author who helped pioneer the science-fiction genre. He is best known for his novels A Journey to the Centre of the Earth (1864), From the Earth to the Moon (1865), Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea (1869-1870), Around the World in Eighty Days (1873) and The Mysterious Island (1875).
Julmust: Julmust is a soft drink that is mainly consumed in Sweden around Christmas. During the rest of the year it is usually hard to find in stores, but sometimes it is sold at other times of the year under the name must. At Easter the name is pkmust (pk "Easter"). Only recently has sommarmust (sommar, "summer") been available in stores.
Coen brothers: Joel David Coen (born November 29, 1954) and Ethan Jesse Coen (born September 21, 1957), known together professionally as the Coen brothers, are American filmmakers. For more than twenty years, the pair have written and directed numerous successful films, ranging from screwball comedies to hardboiled thrillers, to movies where genres blur together. The brothers write, direct and produce their films jointly, although until recently Joel received sole credit for directing and Ethan for producing.
Jorge Luis Borges: Jorge Francisco Isidoro Luis Borges Acevedo (August 24, 1899 - June 14, 1986), best known as Jorge Luis Borges, was an Argentine writer, essayist, and poet born in Buenos Aires. In 1914 his family moved to Switzerland where he attended school and traveled to Spain. On his return to Argentina in 1921, Borges began publishing his poems and essays in surrealist literary journals. He also worked as a librarian and public lecturer.
Jabal Ram: Jabal Ram is a mountain in Jordan. Most authorities give its elevation as 1,734 m (5,689 ft) metres above sea level. It was once thought to be the highest point in Jordan, but SRTM data shows that Jabal Umm al Dami is 1,854 m (6,083 ft) metres above sea level and therefore higher.
Joseph Goebbels: Dr. Paul Joseph Goebbels was a German politician and Reich Minister of Propaganda in Nazi Germany from 1933 to 1945. As one of German dictator Adolf Hitler's closest associates and most devout followers, he was known for his zealous oratory and anti-Semitism. He was the chief architect of the Kristallnacht attack on the German Jews, which historians consider to be the commencement of the Nazi violence culminating in the Holocaust. Goebbels earned a Ph.D.
July: July (pronunciation) is the seventh month of the year in the Gregorian Calendar and one of seven Gregorian months with the length of 31 days. It is, on average, the warmest month in most of the Northern hemisphere(where it is the second month of summer) and the coldest month in much of the Southern hemisphere. The second half of the year commences in July. The birthstone for July is a red ruby. In the Southern Hemisphere, July is the seasonal equivalent of January in the Northern Hemisphere.
January 1: January 1 is the first day of the year in the Gregorian calendar. There are 364 days remaining until the end of the year. The preceding day is December 31 of the previous year. The following day is January 2nd. Which is in turn followed by January 3rd. And 363 days after that is January 1st once again.
Jane Austen: Jane Austen (16 December 1775 - 18 July 1817) was an English novelist whose works of romantic fiction set among the gentry have earned her a place as one of the most widely read and most beloved writers in English literature. Amongst scholars and critics, Austen's realism and biting social commentary have cemented her historical importance as a writer. Austen lived her entire life as part of a small and close-knit family located on the lower fringes of English gentry.
June: June (pronunciation) is the sixth month of the year in the Gregorian calendar, with a length of 30 days. The Roman poet Ovid provides two etymologies for June's name in his poem concerning the months entitled the Fasti. The first is that the month is named after the Roman goddess Juno, wife of Jupiter and equivalent to the Greek goddess Hera.
January 3: January 3 is the third day of the year in the Gregorian calendar. There are 362 days remaining until the end of the year. The Perihelion, the point in the year when the Earth is closest to the Sun, occurs around this date.
June 28: In common years it is always in ISO week 26. This date is the only date each year where both the month and day are different perfect numbers, June 6 being the only date where the month and day are the same perfect number.
John Horton Conway: John Horton Conway is a prolific mathematician active in the theory of finite groups, knot theory, number theory, combinatorial game theory and coding theory. He has also contributed to many branches of recreational mathematics, notably the invention of the cellular automaton called the Game of Life. Conway is currently professor of mathematics at Princeton University. He studied at Cambridge, where he started research under Harold Davenport. He has an Erds number of one.
June 21: On non-leap years (until 2039), this day marks the summer solstice in the northern hemisphere and the winter solstice in the southern hemisphere, and this is the day of the year with the longest hours of daylight in the northern hemisphere and the shortest in the southern hemisphere.
June 20: On leap years, this day usually marks the summer solstice in the northern hemisphere and the winter solstice in the southern hemisphere.
Jack Lemmon: John Uhler "Jack" Lemmon III (February 8, 1925 - June 27, 2001) was an American actor. He starred in more than 60 films including Some Like It Hot, The Apartment, Mister Roberts, Days of Wine and Roses, The Great Race, Irma la Douce, The Odd Couple, Save the Tiger, The Out-of-Towners, The China Syndrome, Missing, Glengarry Glen Ross, Grumpy Old Men and Grumpier Old Men.
Joseph Conrad: Joseph Conrad (born Jef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski; was a Polish-born British novelist, who became a British subject in 1886. He is regarded as one of the greatest novelists in English though he did not speak the language fluently until he was in his twenties . He wrote stories and novels, predominantly with a nautical or seaboard setting, that depict trials of the human spirit by the demands of duty and honor.
John Updike: John Hoyer Updike (March 18, 1932 - January 27, 2009) was an American novelist, poet, short story writer, art critic, and literary critic. Updike's most famous work is his Rabbit series which chronicled the life of Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom over the course of several decades, from young adulthood to his death. Both Rabbit Is Rich (1981) and Rabbit At Rest (1990) received the Pulitzer Prize.
Joshua Reynolds: Sir Joshua Reynolds RA FRS FRSA (16 July 1723 - 23 February 1792) was an influential 18th century English painter, specialising in portraits and promoting the "Grand Style" in painting which depended on idealisation of the imperfect. He was one of the founders and first President of the Royal Academy. George III appreciated his merits and knighted him in 1769.
John Steinbeck: John Ernst Steinbeck, Jr. (February 27, 1902 - December 20, 1968) was an American writer. He wrote the Pulitzer Prize-winning novel The Grapes of Wrath (1939) and the novella Of Mice and Men (1937). He wrote a total of twenty-seven books, including sixteen novels, six non-fiction books and five collections of short stories. In 1962, Steinbeck received the Nobel Prize for Literature.
John Lee Hooker: John Lee Hooker (August 22, 1917 - June 21, 2001) was an American blues singer-songwriter and guitarist, born in Coahoma County near Clarksdale, Mississippi. Hooker began his life as the son of a sharecropper, William Hooker, and rose to prominence performing his own unique style of what was originally closest to Delta blues. He developed a 'talking blues' style that was his trademark. Though similar to the early Delta blues, his music was metrically free.
Satires of Juvenal: The Satires are a collection of satirical poems by the Latin author Juvenal written in the late 1st and early 2nd centuries A.D. Juvenal is credited with sixteen known poems divided among five books; all are in the Roman genre of Satire, which, at its most basic in the time of the author, comprised a wide-ranging discussion of society and social mores in dactylic hexameter.
Joseph Schumpeter: Joseph Alois Schumpeter (8 February 1883 - 8 January 1950) was an economist and political scientist born in Moravia, then Austria-Hungary, now Czech Republic. He popularized the term "creative destruction" in economics.
Jean Cocteau: Jean Maurice Euge Clent Cocteau (5 July 1889 - 11 October 1963) was a French poet, novelist, dramatist, designer, boxing manager, playwright, artist and filmmaker. Along with other Surrealists of his generation Cocteau grappled with the "algebra" of verbal codes old and new, mise en sce language and technologies of modernism to create a paradox: a classical avant-garde.
John Donne: John Donne, pronounced /n/ "dun" (21 January 1572 - 31 March 1631) was an English Jacobean poet, preacher and a major representative of the metaphysical poets of the period. His works are notable for their realistic and sensual style and include sonnets, love poetry, religious poems, Latin translations, epigrams, elegies, songs, satires and sermons. His poetry is noted for its vibrancy of language and inventiveness of metaphor, especially as compared to those of his contemporaries.
Joey Ramone: Joey Ramone (May 19, 1951 - April 15, 2001), born as Jeffry Ross Hyman, was a vocalist and songwriter best known for his work in the punk rock group the Ramones. Joey Ramone's image, voice and tenure as frontman of the Ramones made him a countercultural icon.
July 2: It is the midpoint of a common year. This is because there are 182 days before and 182 days after (median of the year) in common years, and 183 before and 182 after in leap years. The exact time in the middle of the year is at noon, or 12:00. It falls on the same day of the week as New Year's Day in common years.
July 1: July 1 is the 182nd day of the year in the Gregorian calendar. There are 183 days remaining until the end of the year. The middle of this day marks the halfway point of a common year. The end of this day marks the halfway point of a leap year. It also falls on the same day of the week as New Year's Day in a leap year.
June 30: 350 - Roman usurper Nepotianus, of the Constantinian dynasty, is defeated and killed by troops of the usurper Magnentius, in Rome. 1422 - Battle of Arbedo between the duke of Milan and the Swiss cantons. 1520 - The Spaniards are expelled from Tenochtitlan. 1559 - King Henry II of France is seriously injured in a jousting match against Gabriel de Montgomery. 1651 - The Deluge: Khmelnytsky Uprising - the Battle of Beresteczko ends with a Polish victory.
July 4: July 4 is the 185th day of the year in the Gregorian calendar. There are 180 days remaining until the end of the year. The Aphelion, the point in the year when the Earth is farthest from the Sun, occurs around this date.
John Cleese: John Marwood Cleese (born 27 October 1939) is an Academy Award-nominated English actor, comedian, writer, and film producer who is known for being a member of Monty Python, the comedy troupe responsible for the sketch show Monty Python's Flying Circus and the four Monty Python films: And Now for Something Completely Different, Holy Grail, Life of Brian and The Meaning of Life. Cleese co-wrote and starred in, with first wife Connie Booth, the British sitcom Fawlty Towers.
July 7: The terms 7th July, July 7th, and 7/7 (pronounced "Seven-seven") have been widely used in the Western media as a shorthand for the 7 July 2005 bombings on London's transport system. In China, this term is used to denote the Battle of Lugou Bridge started on July 7, 1937, marking the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War.
John Lennon: John Winston Ono Lennon, MBE (9 October 1940 - 8 December 1980) was an English rock musician, singer-songwriter, author, and peace activist who gained worldwide fame as one of the founding members of The Beatles. With Paul McCartney, Lennon formed one of the most influential and successful songwriting partnerships of the 20th century and "wrote some of the most popular music in rock and roll history".
J. R. R. Tolkien: John Ronald Reuel Tolkien, CBE (3 January 1892 - 2 September 1973), whose surname is pronounced /lki/, was an English writer, poet, philologist, and university professor, best known as the author of the classic high fantasy works The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Silmarillion. Tolkien was Rawlinson and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon at Oxford University from 1925 to 1945 and Merton Professor of English Language and Literature there from 1945 to 1959. He was a close friend of C.
John Lynch New Hampshire: John H. Lynch (born November 25, 1952) is the 90th Governor of New Hampshire, currently serving his third two-year term.
James Branch Cabell: James Branch Cabell, pronounced /l/ (April 14, 1879 - May 5, 1958) was an American author of fantasy fiction and belles lettres. Cabell was well regarded by his contemporaries, including H. L. Mencken and Sinclair Lewis. His works were considered escapist and fit well in the culture of the 1920s, when his works were most popular. For Cabell, veracity was "the one unpardonable sin, not merely against art, but against human welfare.
Java programming language: Java is a programming language originally developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems and released in 1995 as a core component of Sun Microsystems' Java platform. The language derives much of its syntax from C and C++ but has a simpler object model and fewer low-level facilities. Java applications are typically compiled to bytecode that can run on any Java Virtual Machine (JVM) regardless of computer architecture.
Jason: Jason was a late ancient Greek mythological figure, famous as the leader of the Argonauts and their quest for the Golden Fleece. He was the son of Aeson, the rightful king of Iolcus. He was married to the sorceress Medea. Jason is considered to be one of the heroes of Greek mythology, along with such others as Herakles and Odysseus. Jason appeared in various literature in the classical world of Greece and Rome, including the epic poem Argonautica and tragedian play, Medea.
July 11: 472 - After being besieged in Rome by his own generals, Western Roman Emperor Anthemius is captured in the Old St. Peter's Basilica and put to death. 911 - Signing of the Treaty of Saint-Clair-sur-Epte between Charles the Simple and Rollo of Normandy. 1156 - Siege of Shirakawa-den in Japan. 1302 - Battle of the Golden Spurs - a coalition around the Flemish cities defeats the king of France's royal army.
Judah haNasi: Rabbi Yehuda haNasi,, also known as Rebbi and Rabbeinu HaKadosh, was a key leader of the Jewish community of Judea toward the end of the 2nd century CE, during the occupation by the Roman Empire. He is best known as the chief redactor and editor of the Mishnah. He was of the Davidic line, the royal line of King David, hence the title nasi, meaning prince. The title nasi was also used for presidents of the Sanhedrin. (In modern Hebrew, it usually means "President").
Jack Kerouac: Jack Kerouac (March 12, 1922 - October 21, 1969) was an American novelist and poet. Alongside William S. Burroughs and Allen Ginsberg, he is considered a pioneer of the Beat Generation, and a literary iconoclast. Kerouac is held as an important writer both for his spontaneous style and for his content which consistently dealt with such topics as jazz, promiscuity, Buddhism, drugs, poverty, and travel. His writings have inspired several prominent writers, including Hunter S.
Jeff Mills: Jeff Mills is an influential American techno DJ and producer.
Jazz dance: Jazz dance is a classification shared by a broad range of dance styles. Prior to the 1950s, jazz dance referred to dance styles that originated from African American vernacular dance. In the 1950s, a new genre of jazz dancemodern jazz danceemerged, with roots in Caribbean traditional dance. Every individual style of jazz dance has roots traceable to one of these two distinct origins.
Jabberwocky: "Jabberwocky" is a poem of nonsense verse written by Lewis Carroll, originally featured as a part of his novel Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There (1872). It is considered by many to be one of the greatest nonsense poems written in the English language. The poem is sometimes used in primary schools to teach students about the use of portmanteau and nonsense words in poetry, as well as use of nouns and verbs.
John Major: Sir John Major, KG, CH, ACIB (born 29 March 1943) is a British politician, who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and Leader of the Conservative Party from 1990 to 1997. During his term as Prime Minister, the world went through a period of political and military transition after the end of the Cold War. This included the growing importance of the European Union and the debate surrounding Britain's ratification of the Maastricht Treaty.
John Sparrow David Thompson: Sir John Sparrow David Thompson, KCMG, PC, QC (November 10, 1845 - December 12, 1894) was a Canadian lawyer, judge, politician, and university professor, who served as the fourth Prime Minister of Canada from December 5, 1892 to December 12, 1894, as well as the sixth Premier of Nova Scotia in 1882. He was the first Roman Catholic to hold the office of prime minister.
List of compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach: There are over 1000 known compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach. Listed here are about half of these in the order of the BWV catalog, including the spurious works in the BWV Anhang ("Appendix").
John A. Macdonald: Sir John Alexander Macdonald, GCB, KCMG, PC, PC (Can), (11 January 1815 - 6 June 1891) was the first Prime Minister of Canada and the dominant figure of Canadian Confederation. Macdonald's tenure in office spanned 18 years, making him the second longest serving Prime Minister of Canada. He is the only Canadian Prime Minister to win six majority governments.
John Diefenbaker: John George Diefenbaker, PC, CH, QC (September 18, 1895 - August 16, 1979) led Canada as its 13th Prime Minister, serving from June 21, 1957 to April 22, 1963. He was the only Progressive Conservative (PC, or Tory) party leader between 1930 and 1979 to lead it to an election victory, doing so three times, although only once with a majority of the seats in the Canadian House of Commons. Diefenbaker was born in southwestern Ontario in 1895.
Jean-Michel Basquiat: Jean-Michel Basquiat (December 22, 1960 - August 12, 1988) was an American artist and is cited by Graham Thompson as the first painter of African descent to become an international art star. He started as a graffiti artist in New York City, and in the 1980s produced Neo-expressionist painting. Basquiat died of a heroin overdose on August 12, 1988.
John Graves Simcoe: John Graves Simcoe (February 25, 1752 - October 26, 1806) was the first Lieutenant Governor of Upper Canada from 1791-1796. Then frontier, this was modern-day southern Ontario and the watersheds of Georgian Bay and Lake Superior. He founded York and was instrumental in introducing institutions such as the courts, trial by jury, English common law, freehold land tenure, and in abolishing slavery.
July 30: 762 - Baghdad is founded. 1419 - First Defenestration of Prague. 1502 - Christopher Columbus lands at Guanaja in the Bay Islands off the coast of Honduras during his fourth voyage. 1608 - At Ticonderoga, Samuel de Champlain shoots and kills two Iroquois chiefs. This was to set the tone for French-Iroquois relations for the next one hundred years.
John Wilkes Booth: John Wilkes Booth (May 10, 1838-April 26, 1865) was an American stage actor who assassinated President Abraham Lincoln at Ford's Theatre, in Washington, D.C. , on April 14, 1865. Booth was a member of the prominent 19th century Booth theatrical family from Maryland and, by the 1860s, was a well known actor. He was also a Confederate sympathizer vehement in his denunciation of the Lincoln Administration and outraged by the South's defeat in the American Civil War.
Dan Quayle: James Danforth "Dan" Quayle (born February 4, 1947) was the 44th Vice President of the United States, serving under George H. W. Bush (1989-1993). He served as a U.S. Representative and U.S. Senator from the state of Indiana.
Jacobitism: Jacobitism was (and, to a far more limited extent, remains) the political movement dedicated to the restoration of the Stuart kings to the thrones of England, Scotland, and Ireland. The movement took its name from the Latin form Jacobus of the name of King James II and VII. Jacobitism was a response to the deposition of James II and VII in 1688 when he was replaced by his daughter Mary II jointly with her husband and first cousin William of Orange.
J. G. Ballard: James Graham Ballard (15 November 1930 - 19 April 2009) was an English novelist, short story writer, and prominent member of the New Wave movement in science fiction. His best-known books are Crash (1973), adapted into a film by David Cronenberg, and the semi-autobiographical Empire of the Sun (1984), made into a film by Steven Spielberg, based on Ballard's boyhood in the International Settlement and internment by the Japanese Imperial Army during the Second World War.
Journalism: Journalism is mainly defined as reporting news. Although there is much variation within journalism, the ideal is to inform the citizenry. Journalists are expected to research and report not only on events, but also on issues and trends. "Watchdog journalism" helps to keep power in check. Journalism also includes opinion and analysis.
Julius Caesar: Gaius Julius Caesar (13 July 100 BC - 15 March 44 BC) was a Roman military and political leader. He played a critical role in the transformation of the Roman Republic into the Roman Empire. As a politician, Caesar made use of popularist tactics.
John Calvin: John Calvin was an influential French theologian and pastor during the Protestant Reformation. He was a principal figure in the development of the system of Christian theology later called Calvinism. Originally trained as a humanist lawyer, he broke from the Roman Catholic Church around 1530.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau: Jean-Jacques Rousseau (Geneva, 28 June 1712 - Ermenonville, 2 July 1778) was a major Genevois philosopher, writer, and composer of the 18th-century Enlightenment. His political philosophy influenced the French Revolution and the development of modern political and educational thought. His novel, ', which he considered his most important work, is a seminal treatise on the education of the whole person for citizenship.
Jardine Matheson Holdings: Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited often called Jardines or Jardine's, is a multinational corporation that is incorporated in Bermuda and based in Hong Kong. While listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Singapore Exchange, the vast majority of Jardines shares are traded in Singapore.
Judit Polg r: Judit Polg (born July 23, 1976) is a Hungarian chess grandmaster. She is by far the strongest female chess player in history. In 1991, she achieved the title of Grandmaster (GM) at the age of 15 years and 4 months. She was, at that time, the youngest person ever to do so. Polg is ranked number 51 in the world on the March 2010 FIDE rating list with an Elo rating of 2682, the only woman on FIDE's Top 100 Players list, and has been ranked as high as eighth.
John Newton: John Henry Newton (July 24, 1725 - December 21, 1807) was an English Anglican clergyman and former slave-ship captain. He was the author of many hymns, including "Amazing Grace".
John von Neumann: John von Neumann (December 28, 1903 - February 8, 1957) was a Hungarian American mathematician who made major contributions to a vast range of fields, including set theory, functional analysis, quantum mechanics, ergodic theory, continuous geometry, economics and game theory, computer science, numerical analysis, hydrodynamics (of explosions), and statistics, as well as many other mathematical fields. He is generally regarded as one of the greatest mathematicians in modern history.
James Blish: James Benjamin Blish (May 23, 1921 - July 30, 1975) was an American author of fantasy and science fiction. Blish also wrote literary criticism of science fiction using the pen-name William Atheling Jr.
Jet engine: A jet engine is a reaction engine that discharges a fast moving jet of fluid to generate thrust in accordance with Newton's laws of motion. This broad definition of jet engines includes turbojets, turbofans, rockets, ramjets, pulse jets and pump-jets. In general, most jet engines are internal combustion engines but non-combusting forms also exist. In some common parlance, the term 'jet engine' loosely refers to an internal combustion .
Jack L. Chalker: Jack Laurence Chalker (December 17, 1944 - February 11, 2005) was an American science fiction author. Chalker was also a Baltimore City Schools history teacher in Maryland for a time. He also was a member of the Washington Science Fiction Association and was involved in the founding of the Baltimore Science Fiction Society.
James Madison: James Madison (March 16, 1751 - June 28, 1836) was an American politician and political philosopher who served as the fourth President of the United States (1809-1817) and is considered one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. The "Father of the Constitution," he was the principal author of the document. In 1788, he wrote over a third of the Federalist Papers, still the most influential commentary on the Constitution.
Journal of the Travellers Aid Society: Journal of the Travellers Aid Society is a role-playing game magazine devoted to Traveller, commonly abbreviated JTAS. The first issue was published by GDW in 1979 and the last of the first run was #24 in 1985. It was superseded by the magazine Challenge, which took up its numbering scheme and ran from issue 25 onwards with a broader role-playing game focus. The magazine was revived by Imperium Games after GDW folded, and JTAS 25 and 26 were published before that publisher folded itself.
Johann Friedrich Agricola: Johann Friedrich Agricola (4 January 1720 - 2 December 1774) was a German composer, organist, singer, pedagogue, and writer on music. He sometimes wrote under the pseudonym Flavio Anicio Olibrio.
James Hutton: James Hutton MD (Edinburgh, 3 June 1726 OS - 26 March 1797) was a Scottish geologist, physician, naturalist, chemist and experimental farmer. He is considered the father of modern geology. His theories of geology and geologic time, also called deep time, came to be included in theories which were called plutonism and uniformitarianism.
J tunheimr: File:Louis Huard - Giant Skrymir and Thor. jpg [The] Giant Skrymir and Thor, by Louis Huard. Junheimr is one of the Nine Worlds and the world of the Giants of Norse Mythology -- Rock Giants and Frost Giants. From there they menace the humans in Midgard and the gods in Asgard, from whom they are separated by the river Ifing. Gastropnir, home of Menglad, and rymheimr, home of jazi, were both located in Jotunheim, which was ruled by King Thrym.
Judicial Committee of the Privy Council: The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) is one of the highest courts in the United Kingdom, established by the Judicial Committee Act 1833. It is also the highest court of appeal for several independent Commonwealth countries, the UK overseas territories, and the British Crown dependencies. It is simply referred to as the Privy Council, as appeals are in fact made to the Queen as Her Majesty in Council, who then refers the case to the Judicial Committee for "advice".
Jakob Abbadie: Jakob Abbadie (1654? - September 25, 1727), also known as Jacques or James Abbadie, was a Protestant divine and writer. He became dean of Killaloe, in Ireland.
Johannes Agricola: Johannes Agricola (originally Schneider, then Schnitter) (April 20, 1494 - September 22, 1566) was a German Protestant reformer and humanist. He was a follower and friend of Martin Luther, who became his antagonist in the matter of the binding obligation of the law on Christians.
Jerry Lewis: Jerry Lewis (born March 16, 1926) is an American comedian, actor, film producer, writer, film director and singer. He is best-known for his slapstick humor in stage, screen, television, radio, and recording and is also known for his charity fund-raising telethons and position as national chairman for the Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA).
Japanese cuisine: Japanese cuisine has developed over the centuries as a result of many political and social changes. The cuisine eventually changed with the advent of the Medieval age which ushered in a shedding of elitism with the age of shogun rule. In the early modern era massive changes took place that introduced non-Japanese cultures, most notably Western culture, to Japan.
John Alden: John Alden (1599 - September 12, 1687) is said to be the first person from the The Mayflower to set foot on Plymouth Rock in 1620. He was a ship-carpenter by trade and a cooper for The Mayflower, which was usually docked at Southampton. He was also one of the founders of the Plymouth Colony and the seventh signer of the Mayflower Compact. Distinguished for practical wisdom, integrity and decision, he acquired and retained a commanding influence over his associates.
Johann Georg Albrechtsberger: Johann Georg Albrechtsberger (3 February 1736 - 7 March 1809) was an Austrian musician who was born at Klosterneuburg, near Vienna. He originally studied music at Melk Abbey and philosophy at a Benedictine seminary in Vienna and became one of the most learned and skillful contrapuntists of his age. Albrechtsberger's earliest classmates included Michael Haydn and Franz Joseph Aumann.
James Monroe: James Monroe (April 28, 1758 - July 4, 1831) was the 5th President of the United States, serving two terms from 1817 to 1825. His presidency was marked both by an "Era of Good Feelings" - a period of relatively little partisan strife - and later by the Panic of 1819 and a fierce national debate over the admission of the Missouri Territory.
James K. Polk: James Knox Polk (November 2, 1795 - June 15, 1849) was the 11th President of the United States (1845-1849). Polk was born in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. He later lived in and represented the state of Tennessee. A Democrat, Polk served as Speaker of the House (1835-1839) and Governor of Tennessee (1839-1841) before becoming president. A firm supporter of Andrew Jackson, Polk was the last strong pre-Civil War president. Polk is noted for his foreign policy successes.
Junior: Junior comes from the Latin for "younger".
Johann Heinrich Alsted: Johann Heinrich Alsted (March 1588 - November 9, 1638) was a German Protestant divine.
John Napier: John Napier of Merchistoun (1550 - 4 April 1617) - also signed as Neper, Nepair - named Marvellous Merchiston, was a Scottish mathematician, physicist, astronomer & astrologer, and also the 8th Laird of Merchistoun. He was the son of Sir Archibald Napier of Merchiston. John Napier is most renowned as the inventor of the logarithm, and of an invention called "Napier's bones". Napier also made common the use of the decimal point in arithmetic and mathematics.
Jimmy Carter: James Earl "Jimmy" Carter, Jr. (born October 1, 1924) served as the 39th President of the United States from 1977 to 1981 and was the recipient of the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize, the only U.S. President to have received the Prize after leaving office. Before he became President, Carter served two terms as a Georgia State Senator and one as Governor of Georgia, from 1971 to 1975, and was a peanut farmer and naval officer.
Jean Joseph Marie Amiot: Jean Joseph Marie Amiot was a French Jesuit missionary.
Jacob Anatoli: Jacob ben Abba Mari ben Simson Anatoli (c. 1194 - 1256) was a translator of Arabic texts to Hebrew. He was invited to Naples by Frederick II. Under this royal patronage, and in association with Michael Scot, Anatoli made Arabic learning accessible to Western readers. Among his most important works were translations of texts by Averroes.
Jean-Jacques Amp re: Jean-Jacques Ampe (12 August 1800 - 27 March 1864) was a French philologist and man of letters. Born in Lyon, he was the only son of the physicist Andr-Marie Ampe. Jean-Jacques' mother died while he was an infant. He studied the folk-songs and popular poetry of the Scandinavian countries in an extended tour in northern Europe. Returning to France in 1830, he delivered a series of lectures on Scandinavian and early German poetry at the Athenaeum in Marseille.
Gyula Andr ssy: Gyula Andrsy the Old, Count Andrsy de Cskszentkiry et Krasznahorka (3 March 1823 - 18 February 1890) was a Hungarian prime minister and statesman. He was sometimes called Count Julius Andrassy in English.
Juan Andr s: Juan Andr was a littateur and historian (b. Planes, Valencia, Spain - 1740; d. Rome - 12 January 1817). He entered the Society of Jesus in 1754. When the Jesuits were expelled from Spain in 1767, Andr made his abode at Ferrara and taught philosophy there.
Joseph Weizenbaum: Joseph Weizenbaum (Berlin, January 8, 1923 - March 5, 2008) was a German-American author and professor emeritus of computer science at MIT. Born in Berlin, Germany to Jewish parents, he escaped Nazi Germany in 1935, emigrating with his family to the United States. He started studying mathematics in 1941 in the US, but his studies were interrupted by the war, during which he served in the military.
Jerome: Saint Jerome (c. 347 - 30 September 420) (Formerly Saint Hierom) was an Illyrian Christian priest and apologist. He was the son of Eusebius, of the city of Stridon, which was on the border of Dalmatia and Pannonia (and was overthrown by the Goths). He is best known for his new translation of the Bible into Latin, which has since come to be called the Vulgate and his list of writings are extensive.
JPEG: In computing, JPEG (named after the Joint Photographic Experts Group who created the standard) is a commonly used method of lossy compression for photographic images. The degree of compression can be adjusted, allowing a selectable tradeoff between storage size and image quality. JPEG typically achieves 10:1 compression with little perceptible loss in image quality. JPEG compression is used in a number of image file formats.
Joseph Severn: Joseph Severn (7 December 1793 - 3 August 1879) was an English portrait and subject painter and a personal friend of the famous English poet John Keats. He exhibited portraits, Italian genre, literary and biblical subjects and a selection of his paintings can today be found in some of the most important and renowned museums in London including the National Portrait Gallery, the Victoria and Albert Museum and the Tate Britain.
Jetsprint: Jetsprint, or Sprint Boat Racing is a form of racing sport in which jetboats with a crew of two race individually against the clock through twisting series of channels in less than a metre of water. Tracks are typically designed for spectators, and racing is fast and loud, with boat motors usually V8s developing well over 500hp.
Joanna Russ: Joanna Russ (born February 22, 1937) is an American writer, academic and feminist. She is the author of a number of works of science fiction, fantasy and feminist literary criticism and is best known for The Female Man, a novel combining utopian fiction and satire. It used the device of parallel worlds as a form of a mediation of the ways that different societies might produce very different versions of the same person, and how all might interact and respond to sexism.
Jainism: Jainism is an ancient religion of India, also now found in other countries around the world, that prescribes a path of peace and non-violence towards all living beings. Its philosophy and practice rely mainly on self-effort in progressing the soul on the spiritual ladder to divine consciousness. Any soul which has conquered its own inner enemies and achieved the state of supreme being is called jina (Conqueror or Victor).
Juno: Juno may refer to:
Justus von Liebig: Justus von Liebig (12 May 1803 - 18 April 1873) was a German chemist who made major contributions to agricultural and biological chemistry, and worked on the organization of organic chemistry. As a professor, he devised the modern laboratory-oriented teaching method, and for such innovations, he is regarded as one of the greatest chemistry teachers of all time.
John Irving: John Winslow Irving (born John Wallace Blunt, Jr. ; March 2, 1942) is an American novelist and Academy Award-winning screenwriter. Irving achieved critical and popular acclaim after the international success of The World According to Garp in 1978. Some of Irving's novels, such as The Cider House Rules and A Prayer for Owen Meany, have been bestsellers and many have been made into movies.
Jackson Michigan: Jackson is a city located along Interstate 94 in the south central area of the U.S. state of Michigan, about 40 miles (64 km) west of Ann Arbor and 35 miles (56 km) south of Lansing. It is the county seat of Jackson County. As of the 2000 census, the city population was 36,316. It is the principal city of the Jackson Metropolitan Statistical Area, which includes Jackson County. It was founded in 1829, and named after Democratic President Andrew Jackson.
January 20: In astrology, it is the cusp day between Capricorn and Aquarius.
Jurua River: The Juru River is a southern affluent river of the Amazon River west of the Purus River, sharing with this the bottom of the immense inland Amazon depression, and having all the characteristics of the Purus as regards curvature, sluggishness and general features of the low, half-flooded forest country it traverses. It rises among the Ucayali highlands, and is navigable and unobstructed for a distance of 1133 miles (1823 km) above its junction with the Amazon.
J. K. Rowling: Joanne "Jo" Murray, OBE (n Rowling; born 31 July 1965), better known under the pen name J. K. Rowling, is a British author best known as the creator of the Harry Potter fantasy series, the idea for which was conceived whilst on a train trip from Manchester to London in 1990. The Potter books have gained worldwide attention, won multiple awards, sold more than 400 million copies, and been the basis for a popular series of films.
Javary River: The Javary River or Yavar River is a 1,184 km tributary of the Amazon that forms the boundary between Brazil and Peru. It is supposed to be navigable by canoe for 900 miles above its mouth to its sources among the Ucayali highlands, but only 260 were found suitable for steam navigation. The Brazilian Boundary Commission ascended it in 1866 to the junction of the Shino with its Jaquirana branch.
Julio-Claudian dynasty: The Julio-Claudian dynasty normally refers to the first five Roman Emperors: Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius, and Nero, or the family to which they belonged; they ruled the Roman Empire from its formation, in the second half of the first century BC, until AD 68, when the last of the line, Nero, committed suicide. None of the Julio-Claudians were succeeded by their sons; only one of them had a legitimate son survive him.
Jan Hus: Jan Hus aka Jan Huss, John Hus, John Huss, often referred to in English as John Huss or variations thereof, was a Czech priest, philosopher, reformer, and master at Charles University in Prague. He is famed for having been burned at the stake by civil authorities for the propagation of what the Catholic Church considered to be his heretical views of ecclesiology, the Eucharist, and other points of theology, as the civil authorities of that time generally saw heresy as a criminal offense.
Johnson solid: In geometry, a Johnson solid is a strictly convex polyhedron, each face of which is a regular polygon, but which is not uniform, i.e. , not a Platonic solid, Archimedean solid, prism or antiprism. There is no requirement that each face must be the same polygon, or that the same polygons join around each vertex. An example of a Johnson solid is the square-based pyramid with equilateral sides; it has 1 square face and 4 triangular faces.
John Peel: John Robert Parker Ravenscroft, OBE (30 August 1939 - 25 October 2004), known professionally as John Peel, was an English disc jockey, radio presenter and journalist. He was the longest-serving of the original BBC Radio 1 DJs, broadcasting regularly from 1967 until his death in 2004. He was known for his eclectic taste in music and his honest and warm broadcasting style.
Josephus on Jesus: Jesus of Nazareth is possibly mentioned in two passages of the work The Antiquities of the Jews by the Jewish historian Josephus, written in the late first century AD. One passage, known as the Testimonium Flavianum, discusses the career of Jesus. The authenticity of the Testimonium Flavianum has been disputed since the 17th century, although most modern scholars agree that it is partially authentic. The second passage mentions Jesus as the brother of a James, possibly James the Just.
James Thurber: James Grover Thurber (December 8, 1894 - November 2, 1961) was an American author, cartoonist and celebrated wit. Thurber was best known for his contributions to The New Yorker magazine.
J. Edgar Hoover: John Edgar Hoover (January 1, 1895 - May 2, 1972) was the first Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) of the United States. Appointed director of the Bureau of Investigation- predecessor to the FBI- in 1924, he was instrumental in founding the FBI in 1935, where he remained director until his death in 1972.
James Cagney: James Francis Cagney, Jr. (July 17, 1899 - March 30, 1986) was an American film actor. Although he won acclaim and major awards for a wide variety of roles, he is best remembered for playing "tough guys. " In 1999, the American Film Institute ranked him eighth among the Greatest Male Stars of All Time. For his first performing role, he danced dressed as a woman in the chorus line of the 1919 revue Every Sailor.
Jonathan Richman: Jonathan Richman (born May 16, 1951) is a Jewish American singer, songwriter and guitarist. In 1970 he founded The Modern Lovers, an influential proto-punk band. Since the mid-1970s, Richman has worked either solo or with low-key, generally acoustic backing. He is known for his wide-eyed, unaffected and child-like outlook, and music that, while rooted in rock and roll, often draws on influences from around the world.
Japanese: Japanese refers to anything that originates in Japan, an island country in East Asia. Used as a noun, it may also refer to: Japanese language, a Japonic language spoken mainly in Japan Japanese people, the ethnic group that identifies with Japan through culture or ancestry Japanese writing system, consisting of kanji and kana Japanese diaspora, Japanese emigrants and their descendants around the world Foreign-born Japanese, naturalized citizens of Japan
Johann Bayer: Johann Bayer (1572 - March 7, 1625) was a German lawyer and uranographer. He was born in Rain, Bavaria in 1572. He began his study of philosophy in Ingolstadt in 1592, and moved later to Augsburg to begin work as a lawyer. He grew interested in astronomy during his time in Augsburg. He ultimately became legal advisor to the Augsburg city council in 1612 and died in 1625.
Jonathan Demme: Robert Jonathan Demme (born February 22, 1944) is an American filmmaker, producer and screenwriter.
Juan Gris: Jos Victoriano Gonzez-Pez (March 23, 1887 - May 11, 1927), better known as Juan Gris, was a Spanish painter and sculptor who lived and worked in France most of his life. His works are closely connected to the emergence of an innovative artistic genre- Cubism, creating several of the movement's most distinctive works.
James Clerk Maxwell: James Clerk Maxwell (13 June 1831 - 5 November 1879) was a Scottish theoretical physicist and mathematician. His most important achievement was classical electromagnetic theory, synthesizing all previously unrelated observations, experiments and equations of electricity, magnetism and even optics into a consistent theory.
James Whale: James Whale (22 July 1889 - 29 May 1957) was a British film director, theatre director and actor. He is best remembered for his work in the horror film genre, having directed Frankenstein (1931), The Old Dark House (1932), The Invisible Man (1933) and Bride of Frankenstein (1935), all recognized as classics of the genre. Whale directed over a dozen films in other genres, including what is considered the definitive film version of the musical Show Boat (1936).
Jerusalem: Jerusalem is the capital of Israel and, if including the area and population of East Jerusalem, its largest city in both population and area, with a population of 763,800 residents over an area of 125.1 km. Located in the Judean Mountains, between the Mediterranean Sea and the northern edge of the Dead Sea, modern Jerusalem has grown far beyond the boundaries of the Old City. The city has a history that goes back to the 4th millennium BCE, making it one of the oldest cities in the world.
John Hagelin: John Hagelin (born June 9, 1954) is an American particle physicist, three-time candidate of the Natural Law Party for President of the United States, and a leader of the Transcendental Meditation movement in the US. Hagelin was a researcher at the European Organization for Nuclear Research and the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, and is now Professor of Physics and Director of the Institute of Science, Technology and Public Policy at Maharishi University of Management.
Javelin throw: The javelin throw is a track and field athletics throwing event where the object to be thrown is the javelin, a spear approximately 2.5 metres in length. Javelin is an event of both the men's decathlon and the women's heptathlon. The javelin thrower gains momentum by running up to a predetermined area.
James Madison University: James Madison University (also known as JMU, Madison, or James Madison) is a public coeducational research university located in Harrisonburg, Virginia, U.S. Founded in 1908 as the State Normal and Industrial School for Women at Harrisonburg, the university has undergone four name changes until settling with James Madison University. The university is situated in the Shenandoah Valley, with the campus quadrangle located on South Main Street in Harrisonburg.
Society of Jesus: The Society of Jesus is the largest male Catholic religious order; its members are called Jesuits. Jesuit priests and brothersknown colloquially as "God's marines"are engaged in evangelization and apostolic ministry in 112 nations on six continents reflecting the Formula of the Institute (principle) of the Society.
Jericho: Jericho; is a city located near the Jordan River in the West Bank of the Palestinian Territories. It is the capital of the Jericho Governorate, and has a population of over 20,000 Palestinians. Situated well below sea level on an east-west route 16 kilometres (10 mi) north of the Dead Sea, Jericho is the lowest permanently inhabited site on earth. It is also believed to be one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities of the world.
Joseph Haydn: Franz Joseph Haydn (March 31, 1732 - May 31, 1809) was an Austrian composer. He was one of the most important, prolific and prominent composers of the classical period. He is often called the "Father of the Symphony" and "Father of the String Quartet" because of his important contributions to these genres. He was also instrumental in the development of the piano trio and in the evolution of sonata form.
Johann Elert Bode: Johann Elert Bode (January 19, 1747 - November 23, 1826) was a German astronomer known for his reformulation and popularization of the Titius-Bode law. Bode determined the orbit of Uranus and suggested the planet's name.
Jan Karon: Jan Karon (b. 1937 in Lenoir, North Carolina) is an American writer and novelist, who has written for both children and adults. Janice Meredith Wilson was named after a popular novel, Janice Meredith. She retired from a career in advertising and moved to Blowing Rock, North Carolina to write. Among her awards are an ABBY Honor award for books in the Mitford series (set in the fictional community of Mitford, North Carolina).
Jimi Hendrix: James Marshall "Jimi" Hendrix (born Johnny Allen Hendrix; November 27, 1942 - September 18, 1970) was an American guitarist, singer and songwriter. He is often considered to be the greatest electric guitarist in the history of rock music by other musicians and commentators in the industry, and one of the most important and influential musicians of his era across a range of genres.
Janet Reno: Janet Wood Reno (born July 21, 1938) is the former Attorney General of the United States (1993-2001). She was nominated by President Bill Clinton on February 11, 1993, and confirmed on March 11. She was the first female Attorney General and the second longest serving Attorney General after William Wirt.
John Sayles: John Thomas Sayles (born 28 September 1950) is an American independent film director and screenwriter.
Johnny Haynes: John Norman Haynes (17 October 1934-18 October 2005), better known as Johnny Haynes, was an English footballer who played a club-record 658 games and scored 158 goals for Fulham Football Club between 1952 and 1970. An inside forward, Haynes is widely regarded as the greatest footballer ever to play for the London club, particularly noted for his exceptional passing skill and ability to read a game.
John Wayne: Marion Mitchell Morrison (May 26, 1907 - June 11, 1979), born Marion Robert Morrison and better known by his stage name John Wayne, was an American film actor, director and producer. He epitomized rugged masculinity and has become an enduring American icon. He is famous for his distinctive voice, walk and height. He was also known for his conservative political views and his support from the 1950s for anti-communist positions.
Joseph: Joseph or Saint Joseph may refer to:
James Spader: James Todd Spader (born February 7, 1960) is an American actor. He is perhaps better known for his eccentric roles in movies such as Pretty in Pink, Sex, lies, and videotape, Mannequin, Crash, Stargate, Secretary, and his portrayal of the colorful attorney Alan Shore on the television series The Practice and its spin-off Boston Legal.
John Digweed: John Digweed (born as Thomas John Digweed on 1 January 1967 in Hastings, England) is an English DJ and record producer.
Jutland Peninsula: The Jutland Peninsula or more historically the Cimbrian Peninsula is a peninsula in Europe, divided between Denmark and Germany. The names are derived from the Jutes and the Cimbri. The historic region of Jutland, the area that was covered by Codex Holmiensis (Jyske Lov) covered the Jutland Peninsula area north of Eider River and included Funen, the North Jutlandic Island and other smaller islands.
Jehu: Jehu was king of Israel, the son of Jehoshaphat, and grandson of Nimshi. William F. Albright has dated his reign to 842-815 BC, while E. R. Thiele offers the dates 841-814 BC. The principal source for the events of his reign comes from 2 Kings 9-10.
Jacob: Jacob, also known as Israel, was the third patriarch of the Jewish people, and ancestor of the twelve tribes of Israel, named after ten of his twelve sons, as well as the two sons of his son Joseph. In the Hebrew Bible he is the son of Isaac and Rebecca, the grandson of Abraham and Sarah and of Bethuel, and the twin brother of Esau. He had twelve sons and several daughters, of whom only one is known by name, by his two wives, Leah and Rachel, and their maidservants, Bilhah and Zilpah.
Jehoshaphat: Jehoshaphat was the fourth king of the Kingdom of Judah, and successor of his father Asa. His children included Jehoram, who succeeded him as king. His mother was Azubah Historically, his name has sometimes been connected with the Valley of Jehosaphat, where, according to Joel 3:2, the God of Israel will gather all nations for judgment.
Jeremiah disambiguation: Jeremiah is a given name and surname that may also be spelled Jeremias. It may refer to:
Joshua: Joshua, according to the Hebrew Bible, became the leader of the Israelite tribes after the death of Moses. His story is told chiefly in the books Exodus, Numbers and Joshua. According to the Bible, Joshua's name was Hoshea the son of Nun, of the tribe of Ephraim, but that Moses called him Joshua, and that is the name by which he is commonly known. He was born in Egypt prior to the Exodus, and was probably the same age as Caleb, with whom he is occasionally associated.
Jeroboam: Jeroboam was the first king of the northern Israelite Kingdom of Israel after the revolt of the ten northern Israelite tribes against Rehoboam that put an end to the United Monarchy. He reigned for twenty-two years. William F. Albright has dated his reign to 922 to 901 BC, while Edwin R. Thiele offers the dates 931 to 910 BC.
Jehoram: Jehoram was the name of several individuals in the Tanakh. The female version of this name is Athaliah. Jehoram of Israel or Joram, the King of Israel Jehoram of Judah, the King of Judah The son of Toi, King of Hamath who was sent by his father to congratulate David on the occasion of his victory over Hadadezer A Levite of the family of Gershom A priest sent by Jehoshaphat to instruct the people in Judah
John Brunner novelist: John Kilian Houston Brunner (24 September 1934 - 26 August 1995) was a prolific British author of science fiction novels and stories. His 1968 novel Stand on Zanzibar, about an overpopulated world, won the 1968 Hugo Award for best science fiction novel. It also won the BSFA award the same year. The Jagged Orbit won the BSFA award in 1970.
John the Baptist: John the Baptist was an itinerant preacher and a major religious figure who led a movement of Baptism at the Jordan River. John was an historical figure who lived until the year 36 CE and followed the example of previous Hebrew prophets, living austerely, challenging sinful rulers, calling for repentance, and promising God's justice. John is regarded as a prophet in Christianity, Islam, the Bah' Faith, and Mandaeism.
Jack Butler Yeats: John "Jack" Butler Yeats (29 August 1871 - 28 March 1957) was an Irish artist. His early style was that of an illustrator; he only began to work regularly in oils in 1906. His early pictures are simple lyrical depictions of landscapes and figures, predominantly from the west of Ireland- especially of his boyhood home of Sligo. His brother is William Butler Yeats. Yeats' works contain elements of Romanticism, and are grounded in fine observation and brilliant draughtsmanship.
Joe Pass: Joe Pass (born Joseph Anthony Passalacqua) January 13, 1929 - May 23, 1994) was a jazz guitarist. His extensive use of walking basslines, melodic counterpoint during improvisation, use of a chord-melody style of play and outstanding knowledge of chord progressions opened up new possibilities for jazz guitar and had a profound influence on future guitarists.
Joseph Yoakum: Joseph Elmer Yoakum (February 20, 1890-December 25, 1972) was a self-taught artist of African-American and Native American descent who drew landscapes in a unique and highly individual style. He was 76 when he started to record his memories in the form of imaginary landscapes, and he produced over 2000 drawings during the last decade of his life. His work is a prime example of outsider art.
Jefferson Davis: Jefferson Finis Davis (June 3, 1808 - December 6, 1889) was an American military officer, statesman and leader of the Confederacy during the American Civil War, serving as the president of the Confederate States of America for its entire history, 1861 to 1865. A West Point graduate, Davis fought in the Mexican-American War as a colonel of a volunteer regiment, and was the United States secretary of war under Pres. Franklin Pierce.
Jonathan Meades: Jonathan (Turner) Meades is a British writer on food, architecture, and culture, as well as an author and broadcaster. Meades was educated at the the independent school King's College in the market town of Taunton in Somerset and studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) c.1967. He is an Honorary Associate of the National Secular Society and a Distinguished Supporter of the British Humanist Association.
Jazz guitar: The term jazz guitar may refer to either a type of guitar or to the variety of playing styles used in the various genres which are commonly termed "jazz. " The guitar has a long history in jazz music, as both an ensemble and solo instrument. These styles were shaped by some of the genre's influential jazz guitarists.
James Watt: James Watt, FRS, FRSE (19 January 1736 - 25 August 1819) was a Scottish inventor and mechanical engineer whose improvements to the Newcomen steam engine were fundamental to the changes brought by the Industrial Revolution in both the Kingdom of Great Britain and the world.
Jewish holiday: A Jewish holiday or festival is a day or series of days observed by Jews as a holy or secular commemoration of an important event in Jewish history. In Hebrew, Jewish holidays and festivals, depending on their nature, may be called yom tov ("good day") or chag ("festival") or ta'anit ("fast"). A "Yom Tov" has similar obligations and restrictions to Shabbat, with the exception that you can cook, carry, and transfer fire (from a pre-existing flame).
John Engler: John Mathias Engler (born October 12, 1948) is an American politician and a member of the Republican Party. He served as the 46th Governor of Michigan from 1991 to 2003. Engler has spent most of his adult life in government. He was serving in the Michigan Senate when he enrolled at Thomas M. Cooley Law School, and graduated with a J.D. in 1981, having served as a Michigan State Senator since 1979. He was elected Senate Majority Leader in 1984 and served there until elected governor in 1990.
Jacques Lacan: Jacques Marie ile Lacan (April 13, 1901 - September 9, 1981) was a French psychoanalyst and psychiatrist who made prominent contributions to psychoanalysis, philosophy, and literary theory. He gave yearly seminars, in Paris, from 1953 to 1981, mostly influencing France's intellectuals in the 1960s and the 1970s, especially the post-structuralist philosophers.
Jupiter Ace: The Jupiter Ace was a British home computer of the early 1980s, produced by a company, set up for the purpose, named Jupiter Cantab. The Ace differed from other microcomputers of the time in that it used FORTH instead of the traditional BASIC. FORTH systems combine high performance and code compactness with the programming benefits of high-level programming languages . The designers had the courage to deliver FORTH's many advantages to the public, education and industry.
John Locke: John Locke (29 August 1632 - 28 October 1704), widely known as the Father of Liberalism, was an English philosopher and physician regarded as one of the most influential of Enlightenment thinkers. Considered the first of the British empiricists, he is equally important to social contract theory. His work had a great impact upon the development of epistemology and political philosophy.
Jewish eschatology: Jewish eschatology is concerned with the Jewish Messiah, afterlife, and the revival of the dead. Eschatology, generically, is the area of theology and philosophy concerned with the final events in the history of the world, the ultimate destiny of humanity, and related concepts.
Jacksonville Jaguars: The Jacksonville Jaguars are a professional American football team located in Jacksonville, Florida. They are currently members of the South Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL). The Jaguars, along with the Carolina Panthers, joined the NFL as an expansion team in 1995. The club has played all of its home games at Jacksonville Municipal Stadium. The stadium is located near the St. Johns River.
John James Richard Macleod: John James Rickard Macleod (6 September 1876 - 16 March 1935) was a Scottish physician and physiologist. He was noted as one of the co-discoverers of insulin and given the Nobel Medal for this discovery.
Jutes: The Jutes, Iuti, or Iutae were a Germanic people who, according to Bede, were one of the three most powerful Germanic peoples of their time. They are believed to have originated from Jutland (called Iutum in Latin) in modern Denmark, Southern Schleswig and part of the East Frisian coast. Bede places the homeland of the Jutes on the other side of the Angles relative to the Saxons, which would mean the northern part of the Jutland Peninsula.
Judah: Judah is the name of a person in the Hebrew Bible, and several historical figures. The original Judah was the fourth son of Jacob and Leah, as recorded in the Hebrew Bible, in Genesis. Judah means "praise" in hebrew.
Jewish services: Jewish services are the prayer recitations that form part of the observance of Judaism. These prayers, often with instructions and commentary, are found in the siddur, the traditional Jewish prayer book.
Jennifer Lopez: Jennifer Lynn Lopez (bornJuly 24, 1969), often nicknamed J. Lo, is an American actress, singer, record producer, dancer, fashion designer and television producer. She is the richest person of Latin American descent in Hollywood according to Forbes, and the most influential Hispanic entertainer in the U.S. according to People en Espals list of "100 Most Influential Hispanics". Lopez began her career as a dancer on the television comedy program In Living Color.
Jackson County Michigan: Jackson County is a county in the U.S. state of Michigan. In 2000, its population was 158,422 with the 2008 Census Bureau placing the population at 160,180. This county is the sole county in the Jackson Metropolitan Statistical Area. The county seat is Jackson. It is named for U.S. President Andrew Jackson. It is considered to be one of Michigan's "Cabinet counties", named for members of Jackson's Cabinet.
Jackson Mississippi: Jackson or Jackson City is the capital and the most populous city of the U.S. state of Mississippi. It is one of two county seats of Hinds County (the town of Raymond is the other), but the city also contains areas in Madison and Rankin Counties. The 2000 census recorded Jackson's population at 184,256, but according to July 1, 2008 estimates, the city's population was 173,861 and its five-county metropolitan area had a population of 537,285.
Jock Taylor: Jock Taylor (March 9, 1954 - August 15, 1982) was a Scottish World Champion motorcycle sidecar racer. John Robert Taylor was born in Pencaitland, East Lothian, and entered his first sidecar race at the age of 19, as the passenger to Kenny Andrews (1974). The following year he took part in his first race as a driver.
JHK: JHK is a three-letter abbreviation with multiple meanings, as described below: James Herbert Keenan, more famously known as Maynard James Keenan, singer of bands Tool, A Perfect Circle, and Puscifer John Harvey Kellogg James Howard Kunstler James Edward Keeler Hikarian, a discontinued robot transformer playset by Tomy
John Dewey: John Dewey (October 20, 1859 - June 1, 1952) was an American philosopher, psychologist, and educational reformer whose ideas have been very influential to education and social reform. Dewey, along with Charles Sanders Peirce and William James, is recognized as one of the founders of the philosophy of pragmatism and of functional psychology. He was a major representative of the progressive and progressive populist philosophies of schooling during the first half of the 20th century in the USA.
LGBT topics and Judaism: The subject of homosexuality in Judaism dates back to the Torah, in the books of Bereshit and Vayiqra. Bereshit (Genesis) treats the destruction of the cities of Sedom and Amorrah by God.
Jumping the broom: Jumping the broom is a phrase and custom relating to slave wedding ceremonies. In some African-American communities, marrying couples will end their ceremony by jumping over a broomstick, either together or separately. This practice dates back at least to the 19th century and has enjoyed a 20th century revival largely due to the miniseries '.
Jackal: A jackal is a member of any of three (sometimes four) small to medium-sized species of the family Canidae, found in Africa, Asia, and southeastern Europe. Jackals fill a similar ecological niche to the Coyote (sometimes called the American Jackal) in North America, that of predators of small to medium-sized animals, scavengers, and omnivores. Their long legs and curved canine teeth are adapted for hunting small mammals, birds and reptiles.
January 13: It is still celebrated as New Year's Eve by those on the Julian calendar.
January 14: It is celebrated as New Year's Day by those still following the Julian calendar.
Jane Shore: Elizabeth "Jane" Shore (c.1445 - c.1527) was one of the many mistresses of King Edward IV of England, the first of the three whom he described respectively as "the merriest, the wiliest, and the holiest harlots" in his realm, and later a courtesan to other noblemen.
Jackie Robinson: Jack Roosevelt "Jackie" Robinson (January 31, 1919 - October 24, 1972) was the first African American Major League Baseball (MLB) player of the modern era. Robinson broke the baseball color line when he debuted with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947. As the first black man to openly play in the major leagues since the 1880s, he was instrumental in bringing an end to racial segregation in professional baseball, which had relegated African-Americans to the Negro leagues for six decades.
JPEG Network Graphics: JPEG Network Graphics is a JPEG-based graphics file format which is closely related to PNG: it uses the PNG file structure (with a different signature) as a container format to wrap JPEG encoded image data. JNG was created as an adjunct to the MNG animation format, but may be used as a stand-alone format.
Jack Kemp: Jack French Kemp (July 13, 1935 - May 2, 2009) was an American politician and a collegiate and professional football player. A Republican, he served as Housing Secretary in the administration of President George H. W. Bush from 1989-93, having previously served nine terms as a Congressman for Western New York from 1971-89. He was the Republican Party's nominee for Vice President in the 1996 election, where he was the running-mate of presidential nominee Bob Dole.
Jacobin politics: A Jacobin, in the context of the French Revolution, was a member of the Jacobin Club (1789-1794). The Jacobin Club was the most famous political club of the French Revolution. So called from the Dominican convent, where they originally met, in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris. At that time, the term was popularly applied to all supporters of revolutionary opinions.
Johann Tobias Krebs: Johann Tobias Krebs (7 July 1690 - 11 February 1762) was a German organist and composer. Krebs was born near Weimar, and died in the same area. He is known as a student of Johann Gottfried Walther and Johann Sebastian Bach. He is believed to be the composer of the Eight Short Preludes and Fugues previously attributed to J.S. Bach.
Jihad: Jihad, an Islamic term, is a religious duty of Muslims. In Arabic, the word jihd is a noun meaning "struggle. " In another context, Jihad means holy war. Jihad appears frequently in the Qur'an and common usage as the idiomatic expression "striving in the way of Allah (al-jihad fi sabil Allah)". A person engaged in jihad is called a mujahid, the plural is mujahideen.
Joseph Gurney Cannon: For other people named Joseph Cannon see Joseph Cannon Joseph Gurney Cannon (May 7, 1836 - November 12, 1926) was a United States politician from Illinois and leader of the Republican Party. Cannon served as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives from 1903 to 1911, and historians generally consider him to be the most dominant Speaker in United States history, with such control over the House that he could often control debate.
James G. Blaine: James Gillespie Blaine (January 31, 1830 - January 27, 1893) was a U.S. Representative, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, U.S. Senator from Maine, two-time United States Secretary of State, and champion of the Half-Breeds. He was a dominant Republican leader of the post-Civil War period, obtaining the 1884 Republican nomination, but losing to Democrat Grover Cleveland.
John Martyn musician: John Martyn, OBE (11 September 1948 - 29 January 2009), born Iain David McGeachy, was a British singer-songwriter and guitarist. Over a forty-year career he released twenty studio albums, working with artists such as Eric Clapton, David Gilmour, and Phil Collins. He has been described by The Times as "an electrifying guitarist and singer whose music blurred the boundaries between folk, jazz, rock and blues".
Justinian I: Flavius Petrus Sabbatius Iustinianus; AD 483 - 13 or 14 November 565, known in English as Justinian I or Justinian the Great, was the second member of the Justinian Dynasty (after his uncle, Justin I) and Eastern Roman Emperor from 527 until his death. He is considered a saint amongst Eastern Orthodox Christians, and is also commemorated by some Lutheran Churches; at the other end of the scale, his contemporary, Procopius, viewed Justinian as a cruel, venal, and incompetent ruler.
Joris Ivens: Joris Ivens (18 November 1898, Nijmegen - 28 June 1989, Paris) was a Dutch documentary filmmaker and committed communist.
John Milton: John Milton (9 December 1608 - 8 November 1674) was an English poet, author, polemicist and civil servant for the Commonwealth of England. He is best known for his epic poem Paradise Lost. He was a scholarly man of letters, a polemical writer, and an official serving under Oliver Cromwell. Milton is believed to have been a Calvinist and the question of predestination and freedom was crucial to his intellectual orientation.
Jaguar: The Jaguar (Panthera onca) is a big cat, a feline in the Panthera genus, and is the only Panthera species found in the Americas. The jaguar is the third-largest feline after the tiger and the lion, and the largest and most powerful feline in the Western Hemisphere. The jaguar's present range extends from Mexico across much of Central America and south to Paraguay and northern Argentina.
Jeffrey Dahmer: Jeffrey Lionel Dahmer (May 21, 1960 - November 28, 1994) was an American serial killer and sex offender. Dahmer murdered 17 men and boys - many of whom were of African or Asian descent - between 1978 and 1991, with the majority of the murders occurring between 1987 and 1991. His murders were particularly gruesome, involving rape, torture, dismemberment, necrophilia and cannibalism. On November 28, 1994, he was beaten to death by a fellow Columbia Correctional Institution inmate.
Joseph Cotten: Joseph Cheshire Cotten (May 15, 1905 - February 6, 1994) was an American actor of stage and film. He is best remembered for his association with Orson Welles, which led to appearances in Citizen Kane (1941), The Magnificent Ambersons (1942), Journey into Fear (1943), for which Cotten was also credited with the screenplay, and The Third Man (1949). Cotten first achieved prominence on Broadway, starring in the original productions of The Philadelphia Story and Sabrina Fair.
Jonah: Jonah is the name given in the Hebrew Bible to a prophet of the northern kingdom of Israel in about the 8th century BC, the eponymous central character in the Book of Jonah, famous for being swallowed by a fish. The Biblical story of Jonah is repeated in the Qur'an.
Jacquard loom: The Jacquard loom is a mechanical loom, invented by Joseph Marie Jacquard in 1801, that simplifies the process of manufacturing textiles with complex patterns such as brocade, damask, and matelasse. The loom is controlled by punchcards with punched holes, each row of which corresponds to one row of the design. Multiple rows of holes are punched on each card and the many cards that compose the design of the textile are strung together in order.
JUnit: JUnit is a unit testing framework for the Java programming language. JUnit has been important in the development of test-driven development, and is one of a family of unit testing frameworks collectively known as xUnit that originated with SUnit. JUnit has been ported to other languages including Ada, PHP, C#, Python, Fortran, Delphi, Free Pascal, Perl, C++, R (RUnit) and JavaScript. JUnit is linked as a JAR at compile-time; the framework resides under packages junit.
Jerome Kern: Jerome Kern (January 27, 1885 - November 11, 1945) was an American composer of popular music. He wrote around 700 songs, including such classics as "Ol' Man River", "Can't Help Lovin' Dat Man", "A Fine Romance", "Smoke Gets in Your Eyes", "All the Things You Are", "The Way You Look Tonight", "Long Ago (and Far Away)" and "Who?", a 6-week number 1 hit for George Olsen & his Orchestra in 1925. His career spanned dozens of Broadway musicals and Hollywood films from 1902 until his death.
Jim Henson: James Maury "Jim" Henson (September 24, 1936 - May 16, 1990), was one of the most widely known puppeteers in American history and was the creator of The Muppets. He was the leading source behind their long run in the television series Sesame Street and The Muppet Show and films such as The Muppet Movie (1979) and creator of advanced puppets for projects like Fraggle Rock, The Dark Crystal, and Labyrinth.
John Danforth: John Claggett "Jack" Danforth (born September 5, 1936) is a former United States Ambassador to the United Nations and former Republican United States Senator from Missouri. He is an ordained Episcopal priest. Danforth is married to Sally D. Danforth and has five adult children.
Joystick: A joystick is an input device consisting of a stick that pivots on a base and reports its angle or direction to the device it is controlling. Joysticks are often used to control video games, and usually have one or more push-buttons whose state can also be read by the computer. A popular variation of the joystick used on modern video game consoles is the analog stick.
John Maynard Smith: John Maynard Smith, F.R.S. (6 January 1920 - 19 April 2004) was a British theoretical evolutionary biologist and geneticist. Originally an aeronautical engineer during the Second World War, he then took a second degree in genetics under the well-known biologist J.B.S. Haldane. Maynard Smith was instrumental in the application of game theory to evolution and theorized on other problems such as the evolution of sex and signalling theory.
Jordanes: Jordanes (also Jordanis or even Iornandes), was a 6th century Roman bureaucrat, who turned his hand to history later in life. While he also wrote Romana about the history of Rome, his best-known work is his Getica, written in Constantinople about AD 551 . It is the only extant classical work dealing with the early history of the Goths. Jordanes was asked by a friend to write this book as a summary of a multi-volume history of the Goths (now lost) by the statesman Cassiodorus.
Jim Bakker: James Orsen "Jim" Bakker (born January 2, 1940) is an American televangelist, a former Assemblies of God minister, and a former host (with his then-wife Tammy Faye Bakker) of The PTL Club, a popular evangelical Christian television program. A sex scandal led to his resignation from the ministry. Subsequent revelations of accounting fraud brought about his imprisonment and divorce and effectively ended his time in the larger public eye.
Jan and Dean: Jan and Dean were a rock and roll duo, popular from the late 1950s through the mid 1960s, consisting of William Jan Berry (April 3, 1941 - March 26, 2004) and Dean Ormsby Torrence (born March 10, 1940). Although Jan & Dean pre-dated The Beach Boys, they became most famously associated with the vocal "surf music" craze inspired by The Beach Boys.
John van Melle: John van Melle (February 11, 1887, Goes - November 8, 1953) was the pen name of a Dutch-born South African author. His real name was Johannes van Melle. Van Melle arrived in South Africa in 1906, and after a short sojourn in the Netherlands East Indies, settled in South Africa permanently in 1913. He worked as a teacher in many rural schools and soon started to publish in both Dutch and the newly emerging Afrikaans language.
Janis Joplin: Janis Lyn Joplin (January 19, 1943 - October 4, 1970) was an American singer, songwriter and music arranger. She rose to prominence in the late 1960s as the lead singer of Big Brother and the Holding Company and later as a solo artist. In 2004, Rolling Stone magazine ranked Joplin number 46 on its list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time, and number 28 on its 2008 list of 100 Greatest Singers of All Time.
Jawaharlal Nehru: Jawaharlal Nehru (14 November 1889-27 May 1964) was an Indian statesman who was the (and to date the longest-serving) prime minister of India, from 1947 until 1964. A leading figure in the Indian independence movement, Nehru was elected by the Congress Party to assume office as independent India's first Prime Minister, and re-elected when the Congress Party won India's first general election in 1952.
John Fink: John Fink (born February 11, 1940) is an American actor. In the 1970-1971 the NBC sitcom Nancy, Fink was cast as an Iowa veterinarian, Dr. Adam Hudson, who marries the daughter of the President of the United States. The short-lived series starred Renne Jarrett (born 1946) as the title character and Celeste Holm and Robert F. Simon in supporting roles.
J. Philippe Rushton: John Philippe Rushton (born December 3, 1943) is a psychology professor at the University of Western Ontario, Canada, most widely known for his work on intelligence and racial differences, particularly his book Race, Evolution and Behavior. His work in this area is highly controversial, and has been criticized by other researchers and civil rights organisations as being poorly researched and racist in nature.
Juliana Hatfield: Juliana Hatfield (born July 27, 1967 in Wiscasset, Maine, United States), is an American guitarist/singer-songwriter and author from the Boston area, formerly of the indie rock bands Blake Babies and Some Girls. She currently lives in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Joseph Smith Jr.: Joseph Smith, Jr. (December 23, 1805 - June 27, 1844) was the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement and an important religious and political figure in the United States. In the late 1820s, Smith announced that an angel had given him a set of golden plates engraved with a chronicle of ancient American peoples, which he had a unique gift to translate.
Jacques-Yves Cousteau: Jacques-Yves Cousteau (11 June 1910 - 25 June 1997) was a French naval officer, explorer, ecologist, filmmaker, innovator, scientist, photographer, author and researcher who studied the sea and all forms of life in water. He co-developed the aqua-lung, pioneered marine conservation and was a member of the Acadie franise. He was commonly known as "le Commandant Cousteau" or "Captain Cousteau".
Joint Political Military Group: On November 29, 1983 a memorandum of agreement was set up between Israel and the United States regarding political, military and economic cooperation. Part of the agreement was for a Joint Political Military Group (JPMG) as a high-level planning forum to discuss and implement combined planning, joint exercises, and logistics. The JPMG is co-chaired by the director general of the Israeli Ministry of Defense and the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs.
John William Polidori: John William Polidori (7 September 1795 - 24 August 1821) was an English writer and physician of Italian descent. He is known for his associations with the Romantic movement and credited by some as the creator of the vampire genre of fantasy fiction. His most successful work was the 1819 short story, The Vampyre, the first vampire story in English. Although originally and erroneously accredited to Lord Byron, both Byron and Polidori affirmed that the story is Polidori's.
Joke: A joke is a short story or ironic depiction of a situation communicated with the intent of being humorous. These jokes will normally have a punchline that will end the sentence to make it humorous. A joke can also be a single phrase or statement that employs sarcasm. The word joke can also be used as a slang term for a person or thing which is not taken seriously by others in general.
Jacob Lawrence: Jacob Lawrence (September 7, 1917 - June 9, 2000) was an American painter; he was married to fellow artist Gwendolyn Knight. Lawrence referred to his style as "dynamic cubism", though by his own account the primary influence was not so much French art as the shapes and colors of Harlem. Lawrence is among the best-known twentieth century African American painters, a distinction shared with Romare Bearden.
James Stewart actor: James Maitland "Jimmy" Stewart (May 20, 1908 - July 2, 1997) was an American film and stage actor, best known for his self-effacing persona. Over the course of his career, he starred in many films widely considered classics and was nominated for five Academy Awards, winning one in competition and receiving one Lifetime Achievement award. He was a major MGM contract star.
Jack Ruby: Jack Leon Rubenstein (March 25, 1911 - January 3, 1967), who legally changed his name to Jack Leon Ruby in 1947, was an American nightclub operator in Dallas, Texas. He was convicted on November 24, 1964, of the murder of Lee Harvey Oswald on November 24, 1963, two days after Oswald was arrested for the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. He successfully appealed the conviction and death sentence.
James Lind: James Lind (4 October 1716 in Edinburgh - 13 July 1794 in Gosport) was a pioneer of naval hygiene in the Scottish and Royal navies. By conducting the first ever clinical trial, he developed the theory that citrus fruits cured scurvy. He argued for the health benefits of better ventilation aboard naval ships, the improved cleanliness of sailors' bodies, clothing and bedding, and below-deck fumigation with sulphur and arsenic.
Jakarta: Jakarta (also DKI Jakarta) is the capital and largest city of Indonesia. Located on the northwest coast of Java, it has an area of 661 square kilometres (255 sq mi) and a population of 8,490,000. Jakarta is the country's economic, cultural and political center. It is the most populous city in Indonesia and Southeast Asia, and is the twelfth-largest city in the world. The metropolitan area, Jabodetabek, is the second largest in the world.
James Randi: James Randi (born August 7, 1928) (stage name The Amazing Randi) is a Canadian American stage magician and scientific skeptic best known as a challenger of paranormal claims and pseudoscience. Randi is the founder of the James Randi Educational Foundation (JREF). Randi began his career as a magician, but when he retired at age 60, he switched to investigating paranormal, occult, and supernatural claims, which he collectively calls "woo-woo.
Jalalabad: Jalalabad is a city in eastern Afghanistan. Located at the junction of the Kabul and Kunar rivers near the Laghman valley, Jalalabad is the capital of Nangarhar province. It is linked by approximately 95 miles (153 km) of highway with Kabul to the west and about the same distance with Peshawar, Pakistan to the east. Jalalabad is the largest city in eastern Afghanistan as well as its social and business center of activity.
Joliet: There are several things named Joliet: Louis Jolliet, a 17th century explorer of North America Joliet, Illinois, United States, a city named after Louis Jolliet Joliet Prison Joliet, Montana, United States Joliet (file system), an extension to the ISO 9660 specification, written by Microsoft Joliet Jake, a.k.a. Joliet Jake Blues, one of The Blues Brothers
James Clavell: James Clavell, born Charles Edmund Dumaresq Clavell (October 10, 1924 - September 7, 1994) was a British novelist, screenwriter, director and World War II veteran and prisoner of war. Clavell is best known for his epic Asian Saga series of novels and their televised adaptations, along with such films as The Great Escape and To Sir, with Love.
John Cade: Dr John Frederick Joseph Cade AO (18 January 1912 - 16 November 1980) was an Australian psychiatrist credited with discovering (in 1948) the effects of lithium carbonate as a mood stabilizer in the treatment of bipolar disorder (then known as manic depression). In an age where the standard treatments for psychosis were electroconvulsive therapy and lobotomy, lithium had the distinction of being the first effective medication available to treat a mental illness.
James D. Watson: James Dewey Watson (born April 6, 1928) is an American molecular biologist, best known as one of the three co-discoverers of the structure of DNA, with Rosalind Franklin and Francis Crick, in 1953. Watson, Francis Crick, and Maurice Wilkins were awarded the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine "for their discoveries concerning the molecular structure of nucleic acids and its significance for information transfer in living material".
Jerk physics: In physics, jerk, also known as jolt, surge and lurch, is the rate of change of acceleration; that is, the derivative of acceleration with respect to time, the second derivative of velocity, or the third derivative of position. Jerk is defined by any of the following equivalent expressions: where is acceleration, is velocity, is position is time. Jerk is a vector, and there is no generally used term to describe its scalar magnitude (e.g. "speed" as the scalar magnitude for velocity).
Johann von Werth: Count Johann von Werth (1591 - September 12, 1652), also Jan von Werth or in French Jean de Werth, was a German general of cavalry in the Thirty Years' War. He was born in 1591 at Bttgen in the duchy of Jlich as the eldest son with eight more brothers and sisters.
John Ambrose Fleming: Sir John Ambrose Fleming (29 November 1849 - 18 April 1945) was an English electrical engineer and physicist. He is known for inventing the first thermionic valve or vacuum tube, the diode, then called the kenotron in 1904. He also invented the right-hand rule, used in mathematics and electronics. He was born the eldest of seven children of James Fleming DD (died 1879), a Congregational minister, and his wife, Mary Ann, at Lancaster, Lancashire and baptized on 11 February 1850.
John George Elector of Brandenburg: John George was a Prince-elector of the Margraviate of Brandenburg (1571-1598) and a Duke of Prussia. A member of the House of Hohenzollern, he was the son of Joachim II Hector, Elector of Brandenburg, and his first wife Magdalena of Saxony. Faced with large debts accumulated during the reign of his father, John George instituted a grain tax which drove part of the peasantry into dependence on the exempt nobility.
J rgen Habermas: Jrgen Habermas is a German sociologist and philosopher in the tradition of critical theory and pragmatism. He is perhaps best known for his work on the concept of the public sphere, the topic of his first book entitled The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere.
Josiah Wedgwood: Josiah Wedgwood (12 July 1730 - 3 January 1795) was an English potter, credited with the industrialization of the manufacture of pottery. A prominent abolitionist, Wedgwood is remembered for his "Am I Not A Man And A Brother?" anti-slavery medallion. He was a member of the Darwin-Wedgwood family. Charles Darwin was his grandson.
Jahangir: Nur-ud-din Salim Jahangir (September 20, 1569 - November 8, 1627) (OS August 31, 1569 - NS November 8, 1627) was the ruler of the Mogul Empire from 1605 until his death. The name Jahangir is from Persian , meaning "Conqueror of the World". Nur-ud-din or Nur al-Din is an Arabic name which means " Light of the Faith. " Born as Prince Muhammad Salim, he was the third and eldest surviving son of Mogul Emperor Akbar. Akbar's twin sons, Hasan and Hussain, died in infancy.
Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1873: The Judicature Act 1873 was an Act of Parliament by the Parliament of the United Kingdom in 1873. It reorganized the English court system to establish the High Court and the Court of Appeal, and also originally provided for the abolition of the judicial functions of the House of Lords with respect to England (although under the act it would have retained those functions in relation to Scotland and Ireland for the time being.
John Cicero Elector of Brandenburg: John Cicero was a Prince-elector of the Margraviate of Brandenburg (1486-1499). After his death he received the cognomen Cicero, after the Roman orator Cicero, but the elector's eloquence and interest in the arts is doubtful. John Cicero was the son of Albert Achilles and Margaret of Baden, and was of the House of Hohenzollern. He was born in Ansbach in Franconia and died at Castle Arneburg.
Julian the Apostate: Flavius Claudius Iulianus, known also as Julianus, Julian, Julian the Apostate or Julian the Philosopher, was Roman Emperor (Caesar, November 355 to February 360; Augustus, February 360 to June 363), last of the Constantinian dynasty. Julian was a man of "unusually complex character": he was "the military commander, the theosophist, the social reformer, and the man of letters".
Joachim III Frederick Elector of Brandenburg: Joachim III Frederick from the House of Hohenzollern was a Prince-elector of the Margraviate of Brandenburg.
John Sigismund Elector of Brandenburg: John Sigismund was a Prince-elector of the Margraviate of Brandenburg from the House of Hohenzollern. He also served as a Duke of Prussia. John Sigismund was born in Halle an der Saale to Joachim Frederick, Elector of Brandenburg, and his first wife Catherine, Princess of Brandenburg-Kstrin. He succeeded his father as Margrave of Brandenburg in 1608. He gave the Reichshof Castrop to his teacher and educator Carl Friedrich von Bordelius.
Jackson Pollock: Paul Jackson Pollock (January 28, 1912 - August 11, 1956) was an influential American painter and a major figure in the abstract expressionist movement. During his lifetime, Pollock enjoyed considerable fame and notoriety. He was regarded as a mostly reclusive artist. He had a volatile personality and struggled with alcoholism all of his life. In 1945, he married the artist Lee Krasner, who became an important influence on his career and on his legacy.
Jacopo Amigoni: Jacopo Amigoni (1682-1752), also named Giacomo Amiconi, was an Italian painter of the late-Baroque or Rococo period, who began his career in Venice, but traveled and was prolific throughout Europe, where his sumptuous portraits were much in demand.
Jet Li: Li Lianjie (born April 26, 1963), better known by his stage name Jet Li, is a Chinese martial artist, actor, wushu champion, and international film star who was born in Beijing, China and who has currently taken up Singapore citizenship. After three years of intensive training with Wu Bin, Li won his first national championship for the Beijing Wushu Team.
Jean-Fran ois Millet: Jean-Franis Millet (October 4, 1814 - January 20, 1875) was a French painter and one of the founders of the Barbizon school in rural France. Millet is noted for his scenes of peasant farmers; he can be categorized as part of the naturalism and realism movements.
Jacques Callot: Jacques Callot (c. 1592-1635) was a baroque printmaker and draftsman from the Duchy of Lorraine (an independent state on the North-Eastern border with France). He is an important figure in the development of the old master print. He made over 1,400 brilliantly detailed etchings that chronicled the life of his period, featuring soldiers, clowns, drunkards, Gypsies, beggars, as well as court life.
Joseph Campbell: Joseph John Campbell (March 26, 1904 - October 30, 1987) was an American mythologist, writer and lecturer, best known for his work in comparative mythology and comparative religion. His work is vast, covering many aspects of the human experience. His philosophy is often summarized by his phrase: "Follow your bliss."
John Dowland: John Dowland (1563 - buried 20 February 1626) was an English composer, singer, and lutenist. He is best known today for his melancholy songs such as "Come, heavy sleep" (the basis for Benjamin Britten's Nocturnal), "Come again", "Flow my tears", "I saw my Lady weepe" and "In darkness let me dwell", but his instrumental music has undergone a major revival, and has been a source of repertoire for classical guitarists during the twentieth century.
John Masefield: John Edward Masefield, OM, (1 June 1878 - 12 May 1967) was an English poet and writer, and Poet Laureate of the United Kingdom from 1930 until his death in 1967. He was born in Egypt.
John James Audubon: John James Audubon (April 26, 1785 - January 27, 1851) was a French-American ornithologist, naturalist, hunter, and painter. He painted, catalogued, and described the birds of North America in a form far superior to what had gone before. In his outsize personality and achievements, he seemed to represent the new American nation of the United States.
Jianghu: Jingh is the milieu, environment, or sub-community, often fictional, in which many Chinese classical wuxia stories are set. The term can be translated literally as "rivers and lakes". Jianghu is an alternative universe coexisting with the actual historical one in which the context of the wuxia genre was set.
Joule: The joule (symbol J), named for James Prescott Joule, is the derived unit of energy in the International System of Units. It is the energy exerted by the force of one newton acting to move an object through a distance of one metre. In terms of dimensions: One joule is defined as the amount of work done by a force of one newton moving an object through a distance of one metre.
John Hancock: John Hancock (January 23, 1737 - October 8, 1793) was a merchant, statesman, and prominent Patriot of the American Revolution. He served as president of the Second Continental Congress and was the first and third Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. He is remembered for his large and stylish signature on the United States Declaration of Independence, so much so that "John Hancock" became, in the United States, a synonym for "signature".
Joseph McCarthy: Joseph Raymond McCarthy (November 14, 1908 - May 2, 1957) was an American politician who served as a Republican U.S. Senator from the state of Wisconsin from 1947 until his death in 1957. Beginning in 1950, McCarthy became the most visible public face of a period in which Cold War tensions fueled fears of widespread Communist subversion.
Jeepster Records: Jeepster Records is a London, England-based independent record label which is currently the home of bands Parka and SixNationState. The label is noted for having been the home of critically acclaimed artists Belle and Sebastian and Snow Patrol. Jeepster Records was founded in 1995 by Mark Jones and Stefano DAndrea.
John W. Campbell: John Wood Campbell, Jr. (June 8, 1910 - July 11, 1971) was an influential figure in American science fiction. As editor of Astounding Science Fiction, from late 1937 until his death, he is generally credited with shaping the so-called Golden Age of Science Fiction. Isaac Asimov called Campbell "the most powerful force in science fiction ever, and for the first ten years of his editorship he dominated the field completely.
James Heckman: James Joseph Heckman (born 19 April 1944) is an American economist and Nobel laureate. He is the Henry Schultz Distinguished Service Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago, Distinguished Chair of Microeconometrics at University College, London, and University College, Dublin. Heckman shared the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics in 2000 with Daniel McFadden for his pioneering work in econometrics and microeconomics.
John Chrysostom: John Chrysostom, Archbishop of Constantinople, was an important Early Church Father. He is known for his eloquence in preaching and public speaking, his denunciation of abuse of authority by both ecclesiastical and political leaders, the Divine Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom, and his ascetic sensibilities. After his death (or, according to some sources, during his life) he was given the Greek surname chrysostomos, meaning "golden mouthed", rendered in English as Chrysostom.
Jeffrey Archer: Jeffrey Howard Archer, Baron Archer of Weston-super-Mare (born 15 April 1940) is an English author, actor, playwright and former politician. He was a Member of Parliament and deputy chairman of the Conservative Party, and became a life peer in 1992. His political career, having suffered several controversies, ended after a conviction for perverting the course of justice and his subsequent imprisonment. He is married to Mary Archer, a scientist specialising in solar power.
Judith of Poland: Judith of Poland, was a Polish princess member of the House of Piast and by marriage Margravine of Brandenburg. She was the daughter of Bolesaw III Wrymouth, Duke of Poland, by his second wife Salomea, daughter of Henry, Count of Berg.
Johannes Brahms: Johannes Brahms (7 May 1833 - 3 April 1897), was a German composer and pianist, one of the leading musicians of the Romantic period. Born in Hamburg, Brahms spent much of his professional life in Vienna, Austria, where he was a leader of the musical scene.
John and Roy Boulting: John and Roy Boulting were English film-makers, who became known for their popular series of satirical comedies in the 1950s and 1960s.
Jean-Paul Sartre: Jean-Paul Charles Aymard Sartre (21 June 1905 - 15 April 1980) was a French existentialist philosopher, playwright, novelist, screenwriter, political activist, biographer, and literary critic. He was one of the leading figures in 20th century French philosophy, existentialism, and Marxism, and his work continues to influence fields such as Marxist philosophy, sociology and literary studies.
John Frankenheimer: John Michael Frankenheimer (February 19, 1930 - July 6, 2002) was an American filmmaker. He is known for making The Manchurian Candidate (1962), Birdman of Alcatraz (also 1962), The Train, (1964), Seven Days in May (also 1964) and Ronin (1998).
John Paul Jones: John Paul Jones (July 6, 1747 - July 18, 1792) was the United States' first well-known naval fighter in the American Revolutionary War. Although he made enemies among America's political elites, his actions in British waters during the Revolution earned him an international reputation which persists to this day.
John Jellicoe 1st Earl Jellicoe: Admiral of the Fleet John Rushworth Jellicoe, 1st Earl Jellicoe, GCB, OM, GCVO (5 December 1859 - 20 November 1935) was a British Royal Navy admiral who commanded the Grand Fleet at the Battle of Jutland in World War I. His handling of the fleet at Jutland remains controversial. Jellicoe later served as First Sea Lord of the Admiralty, but he was removed by a new First Lord because of differences over policy and Britain's ability to carry on the war.
Johann Friedrich Endersch: Johann Friedrich Endersch (25 October 1705 - 28 March 1769) was a German cartographer and mathematician. Endersch also held the title of Royal Mathematician to King Augustus III of Poland.
JIC: JIC is a three-letter abbreviation with multiple meanings, as described below: Jennings International Corporation John Innes Centre Joint Intelligence Center Joint Industrial Council Joint Industry Conference Joint Information Center Jordan Insurance Company Jubilee International Church "just in case" in internet slang Juventud de Izquierda Comunista UK Joint Intelligence Committee JIC tubing fitting
Sandy Woodward: Admiral Sir John Forster "Sandy" Woodward GBE, KCB (born 1 May 1932) is a British Admiral who joined the Royal Navy in 1946 at age thirteen. He became a submariner. In 1960 he passed the Royal Navy's rigorous Submarine Command Course known as The Perisher, and received his first command, the T Class submarine HMS Tireless. He then commanded HMS Grampus before becoming the second in command of the nuclear fleet submarine HMS Valiant.
James Blaylock: James Paul Blaylock (born September 20, 1950) is an American fantasy author. He is noted for a distinctive, humorous style, as well as being one of the pioneers of the steampunk genre of science fiction. He was born in Long Beach, California; studied English at California State University, Fullerton, receiving an M.A. in 1974; and lives in Orange, California, teaching creative writing at Chapman University.
Jerry Pournelle: Jerry Eugene Pournelle (born August 7, 1933) is an American science fiction writer, essayist and journalist who contributed for many years to the computer magazine Byte and has since 1998 been maintaining his own website/blog. From the beginning, Pournelle's work has engaged strong military themes. Several books are centered on a fictional mercenary infantry force known as Falkenberg's Legion. There are strong parallels between these stories and the Childe Cycle mercenary stories by Gordon R.
Barlaam and Josaphat: Barlaam and Josaphat is a Christianized version of the story of Gautama Buddha, the founder of Buddhism. In the Middle Ages the two were treated as Christian saints, being entered in the Greek Orthodox calendar on 26 August, and in the Roman Martyrology in the Western Church as "Barlaam and Josaphat" on the date of 27 November. According to the legend, King Abenner or Avenier in India persecuted the Christian Church in his realm, founded by the Apostle Thomas.
Judicial economy: Judicial economy refers broadly to the principle that the limited resources of the legal system or a given court should be conserved.
Jury instructions: Jury instructions are the set of legal rules that jurors should follow when the jury is deciding a civil or criminal case. Jury instructions are given to the jury by the judge, who usually reads them aloud to the jury. They are often the subject of discussion by attorneys on both sides in the case and the judge in order to make sure their interests are represented and nothing prejudicial is said. Under the American judicial system, juries are the trier of fact when they serve in a trial.
Jurisprudence: Jurisprudence is the theory and philosophy of law. Scholars of jurisprudence, or legal philosophers, hope to obtain a deeper understanding of the nature of law, of legal reasoning, legal systems and of legal institutions. Modern jurisprudence began in the 18th century and was focused on the first principles of the law of nature, civil law, and the law of nations.
Justice: Justice is the concept of moral rightness based on ethics, rationality, law, natural law, religion, fairness, or equity.
Jury trial: A jury trial (or trial by jury) is a legal proceeding in which a jury either makes a decision or makes findings of fact which are then applied by a judge. It is distinguished from a bench trial, in which a judge or panel of judges make all decisions. English common law and the United States Constitution recognize the right to a jury trial to be a fundamental civil liberty or civil right that allows the accused to choose whether to be judged by judges or a jury.
Jacob Abbott: Jacob Abbott (November 14, 1803 - October 31, 1879) was an American writer of children's books.
Jaggies: "Jaggies" is the informal name for artifacts in raster images, most frequently from aliasing, which in turn is often caused by non-linear mixing effects producing high-frequency components and/or missing or poor anti-aliasing filtering prior to sampling. "Jaggies" also refer to a particular kind of screen recognition error on touch-sensitive PDAs and Smartphones. Jaggies are stairlike lines that appear where there should be smooth straight lines or curves.
John Stevens Cabot Abbott: John Stevens Cabot Abbott (September 19, 1805 - June 17, 1877), an American historian, pastor, and pedagogical writer, was born in Brunswick, Maine to Jacob and Betsey Abbott.
Janus disambiguation: Janus may refer to:
John Brown: John Brown may refer to: John Brown (abolitionist) (1800-1859), American who led an anti-slavery revolt in Harpers Ferry, Virginia in 1859 John Brown (doctor) (1735-1788), Scottish physician who taught that disease was caused by either excessive or inadequate stimulation John Brown may also refer to:
Jedi: The Jedi are characters in the fictional Star Wars universe and the series' main protagonists. They use a quasi-telekinetic power, known as the Force, weapons known as lightsabers, which emit a controlled energy flow in the shape of a sword, to serve and protect their Republic and the whole galaxy from conflict or government instability. They sometimes moderate peace negotiations between planets and, if necessary, use their formidable fighting skills to quickly end an unrest.
John Hanson: John Hanson (April 14 1721 - November 22, 1783) was a merchant and public official from Maryland during the era of the American Revolution. After serving in a variety of roles for the Patriot cause in Maryland, in 1779 Hanson was elected as a delegate to the Continental Congress. He signed the Articles of Confederation in 1781 after Maryland finally joined the other states in ratifying them.
James Tobin: James Tobin (March 5, 1918 - March 11, 2002) was an American economist who in his lifetime, had served on the Council of Economic Advisors, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and had taught at Harvard and Yale Universities. He developed the ideas of Keynesian economics, and advocated government intervention to stabilize output and avoid recessions. His academic work included pioneering contributions to the study of investment, monetary and fiscal policy and financial markets.
J.E.B. Stuart: James Ewell Brown "Jeb" Stuart (February 6, 1833 - May 12, 1864) was a U.S. Army officer from Virginia and a Confederate States Army general during the American Civil War. He was known to his friends as "Jeb", from the initials of his given names. Stuart was a cavalry commander known for his mastery of reconnaissance and the use of cavalry in support of offensive operations.
FIFA World Cup Trophy: The World Cup is a gold trophy that is awarded to the winners of the FIFA World Cup. Since the advent of the World Cup in 1930, two trophies have represented victory: the Jules Rimet Trophy from 1930 to 1970, and the FIFA World Cup Trophy from 1974 to the present day. The trophy, originally named Victory, but later renamed in honour of former FIFA president Jules Rimet, was made of gold plated sterling silver and lapis lazuli and depicted Nike, the Greek goddess of victory.
Julian Lennon: John Charles Julian Lennon (born 8 April 1963), known usually as Julian Lennon, is the first son of John Lennon, and is a singer, songwriter and musician in his own right. He is the only child of Lennon's first marriage to Cynthia Powell, and his godfather was Beatles' manager Brian Epstein. He was named after John Lennon's late mother, Julia.
John Belushi: John Adam Belushi (January 24, 1949 - March 5, 1982) was an American comedian, actor, and musician notable for his work on Saturday Night Live, National Lampoon's Animal House, and The Blues Brothers. He was the older brother of James Belushi.
James Hamilton 1st Earl of Abercorn: James Hamilton, 1st Earl of Abercorn PC (c. 1575 - 23 March 1618).
Java Virtual Machine: A Java Virtual Machine (JVM) enables a set of computer software programs and data structures to use a virtual machine model for the execution of other computer programs and scripts. The model used by a JVM accepts a form of computer intermediate language commonly referred to as Java bytecode. This language conceptually represents the instruction set of a stack-oriented, capability architecture. Sun claimed there are over 4.5 billion JVM-enabled devices.
Judgement of Paris: The Judgement of Paris is a story from Greek mythology, which was one of the events that led up to the Trojan War and (in slightly later versions of the story) to the foundation of Rome.
Johann Philipp Abelin: Johann Philipp Abelin was a German chronicler whose career straddled the 16th and 17th centuries. He was born, probably, at Strasbourg, and died there between 1634 and 1637. He wrote numerous histories under the pseudonyms of Abeleus, Philipp Arlanibs, Johann Ludwig Gottfried and Gotofredus. He worked mainly as a translator for the publishing house of Lucas Jennisius, Matths Merian and Friedrich Hulsius in Frankfurt.
John Abercrombie physician: John Abercrombie (10 October 1780 in Aberdeen - 14 November 1844 in Edinburgh) was a Scottish physician and philosopher. The Chambers Biographical Dictionary says of him that after Dr James Gregory's death, he was "recognized as the first consulting physician in Scotland". The son of the Reverend George Abercrombie of Aberdeen, he was educated at the Grammar School and Marischal College, University of Aberdeen. He studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh, and after graduating as M.D.
Jacob Abendana: Jacob Abendana (1630 - September 12, 1695) was hakham of London from 1680 until his death. Jacob was eldest the son of Joseph Abendana and brother to Isaac Abendana. Though his family originally lived in Hamburg, Jacob and his brother were both born in Spain. At some point in time, his family moved to Amsterdam where he studied at the De los Pintos rabbinical academy in Rotterdam. In 1655 he was appointed hakham of that city.
John Abernethy surgeon: John Abernethy FRS (3 April 1764 - 20 April 1831) was an English surgeon, grandson of the Reverend John Abernethy. He was born in Coleman Street in the City of London, where his father was a merchant. Educated at Wolverhampton Grammar School, he was apprenticed in 1779 to Sir Charles Blicke (1745-1815), a surgeon at St Bartholomew's Hospital, London.
Judeo-Christian: Judeo-Christian (sometimes written as Judaeo-Christian) refers to a set of beliefs and ethics held in common by Judaism and Christianity.
Joseph Greenberg: Joseph Harold Greenberg (May 28, 1915 - May 7, 2001) was a prominent and controversial American linguist, principally known for his work in two areas, linguistic typology and the genetic classification of languages.
Jan van Goyen: Jan Josephszoon van Goyen (13 January 1596 - 27 April 1656) was a Dutch landscape painter. Van Goyen was an extremely prolific artist; approximately twelve hundred paintings and more than one thousand drawings by him are known.
Jurisdiction: Jurisdiction (from the Latin ius, iuris meaning "law" and dicere meaning "to speak") is the practical authority granted to a formally constituted legal body or to a political leader to deal with and make pronouncements on legal matters and, by implication, to administer justice within a defined area of responsibility. Alternatively Adjudicate and enforce legal matters. The term is also used to denote the geographical area or subject-matter to which such authority applies.
Jacques Maroger: Jacques Maroger was a painter and the technical director of the Louvre Museum's laboratory in Paris. He devoted his life to understanding the oil-based media of the Old Masters. In 1907, Maroger began to study with Louis Anquetin and worked under his direction until Anquetin's death in 1932. Anquetin worked closely and exhibited with the artists Vincent van Gogh, Charles Angrand, Emile Bernard, Paul Gauguin, Camille Pissarro, Georges Seurat, Paul Signac and Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec.
Justin Martyr: Justin Martyr (also Justin the Martyr, Justin of Caesarea, Justin the Philosopher, Latin Iustinus Martyr or Flavius Iustinus) (100-165) was an early Christian apologist and saint. His works represent the earliest surviving Christian "apologies" of notable size.
James Tiptree Jr.: James Tiptree, Jr. (August 24, 1915 - May 19, 1987) was the pen name of American science fiction author Alice Bradley Sheldon, used from 1967 to her death. She also occasionally wrote under the pseudonym Raccoona Sheldon (1974-77). Tiptree/Sheldon was most notable for breaking down the barriers between writing perceived as inherently "male" or "female" - it was not publicly known until 1977 that James Tiptree, Jr. was a woman.
James Tiptree Jr. Award: The James Tiptree, Jr. Award is an annual literary prize for works of science fiction ("SF") or fantasy that expand or explore one's understanding of gender. It was initiated in February of 1991 by SF authors Pat Murphy and Karen Joy Fowler, subsequent to a discussion at WisCon.
Johann Tetzel: Johann Tetzel (1465 in Pirna - 11 August 1519) was a Dominican preacher accused of selling indulgences and for a couplet attributed to him, "As soon as a coin in the coffer rings mary!!!!! / the soul from purgatory springs. " In 1517, Tetzel was trying to raise money for the ongoing reconstruction of St. Peter's Basilica and it is believedthat Martin Luther was inspired to write his Ninety-Five Theses, in part, due to Tetzel's actions during this period of time.
Jan D ugosz: Jan Dugosz (1 December 1415, Stara Brzenica - 19 May 1480, Krak; also known as Joannes, Ioannes or Johannes Longinus or Dlugossius) was a Polish priest, chronicler, diplomat, soldier, and secretary to Bishop Zbigniew Cardinal Olenicki of Krak.
Jadwiga of Poland: Jadwiga (1373/4 - 17 July 1399) was monarch of Poland from 1384 to her death. Her official title was 'king' rather than 'queen', reflecting that she was a sovereign in her own right and not merely a royal consort. She was a member of the Capetian House of Anjou, the daughter of King Louis I of Hungary and Elisabeth of Bosnia. She is known in Polish as Jadwiga, in English and German as Hedwig, in Lithuanian as Jadvyga, in Hungarian as Hedvig, and in Latin as Hedvigis.
Juventus F.C.: Juventus Football Club, commonly referred to as Juventus and familiarly as Juve, is an Italian professional football club based in Turin, Piedmont. The club was founded in 1897 and has spent its entire history, with the exception of the 2006-07 season, in the top flight First Division (called Serie A since 1929). Juventus is historically the most successful team of Italian football and one of the most successful and recognized in the world.
Joni Mitchell: Joni Mitchell, CC (born Roberta Joan Anderson; November 7, 1943) is a Canadian musician, songwriter, and painter. Mitchell began singing in small nightclubs in her native Western Canada and then busking on the streets of Toronto. In the mid-1960s she left for New York City and its rich folk music scene, recording her debut album in 1968 and achieving fame first as a songwriter and then as a singer in her own right.
John Eccles neurophysiologist: Sir John Carew Eccles, AC FRS FRACP FRSNZ FAAS (27 January 1903 - 2 May 1997) was an Australian neurophysiologist who won the 1963 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work on the synapse. He shared the prize together with Andrew Fielding Huxley and Alan Lloyd Hodgkin.
Justus: Justus (occasionally Iustus) (died on 10 November between 627 and 631) was the fourth Archbishop of Canterbury. He was sent from Italy to England by Pope Gregory the Great, on a mission to convert the Anglo-Saxons, probably arriving with the second group of missionaries despatched in 601. Justus became the first Bishop of Rochester in 604, and attended a church council in Paris in 614.
Kennedy Space Center: The John F. Kennedy Space Center (KSC) is the U.S. government installation that manages and operates America's astronaut launch facilities. Currently serving as the base for the country's three space shuttles, the NASA field center also conducts unmanned civilian launches from adjacent Cape Canaveral Air Force Station (operated by the 45th Space Wing). KSC has been the launch site for every U.S. human space flight since 1968.
James Scarlett 1st Baron Abinger: James Scarlett, 1st Baron Abinger (13 December 1769 - 17 April 1844) was an English judge. He was born in Jamaica, where his father, Robert Scarlett, had property. In the summer of 1785 he was sent to England to complete his education at Hawkshead Grammar School and afterwards at Trinity College, Cambridge, taking his B.A. degree in 1789. Having entered the Inner Temple he was called to the bar in 1791, and joined the northern circuit and the Lancashire sessions.
Jewish views on marriage: Judaism traditionally considers marriage to be the ideal state of personal existence; a man without a wife, or a woman without a husband, is considered incomplete.
Janusz Zajdel: Janusz Andrzej Zajdel (August 15, 1938 in Warsaw - July 19, 1985 in Warsaw) was a prominent Polish science fiction author. He died from cancer. Zajdel is a precursor of social and dystopian fiction. In his works, he envisions totalitarian states and collapsed societies. His heroes are desperately trying to find sense in world around them, sometimes, as in Cylinder van Troffa, they are outsiders from a different time or place, trying to adapt to a new environment.
James Norris Memorial Trophy: The James Norris Memorial Trophy is awarded annually to the National Hockey League's top "defense player who demonstrates throughout the season the greatest all-round ability in the position". The James Norris Memorial Trophy has been awarded 53 times to 22 different players since its beginnings in 1954. At the end of each season, members of the Professional Hockey Writers' Association vote to determine the player who was the best defenseman during the regular season.
JANET: JANET is a private British government-funded computer network dedicated to education and research. All further- and higher-education organisations in the UK are connected to JANET, as are all the Research Councils; the majority of these sites are connected via 20 metropolitan area networks (though JANET refers to these as Regional Networks, emphasising that JANET connections are not just confined to a metropolitan area) across the UK.
Rumi: Jall ad-Dn Muammad Balkh, also known as Jall ad-Dn Muammad Rm, and popularly known as Mowln but known to the English-speaking world simply as Rumi (30 September 1207 - 17 December 1273), was a 13th-centuryPersian poet, jurist, theologian, and Sufi mystic. Rm is a descriptive name meaning "the Roman" since he lived most of his life in an area called Rm because it was once ruled by the Byzantine Empire.
James Beard: James Andrew Beard (May 5, 1903 - January 21, 1985) was an American chef and food writer.
Julia Child: Julia Child (August 15, 1912 - August 13, 2004) was an American chef, author, and television personality. She introduced French cuisine and cooking techniques to the American mainstream through her cookbooks, beginning in 1961 with Mastering the Art of French Cooking, and her television programs, notably The French Chef which premiered in 1963.
James Alan McPherson: James Alan McPherson is a United States short story writer and essayist, a recipient of the Guggenheim Fellowship and a MacArthur Fellowship, and a member of the permanent faculty of the Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa.
Jerome K. Jerome: Jerome Klapka Jerome (2 May 1859 - 14 June 1927) was an English writer and humorist, best known for the humorous travelogue Three Men in a Boat. Jerome was born in Caldmore, Walsall, England, where he is honoured in a display at Walsall Museum, and was brought up in poverty in London. Other works include the essay collections Idle Thoughts of an Idle Fellow and Second Thoughts of an Idle Fellow; Three Men on the Bummel, a sequel to Three Men in a Boat; and several other novels.
Jokichi Takamine: Jokichi Takamine ( , Takamine Jkichi, December 22, 1854 - July 22, 1922) was a Japanese chemist and samurai.
Jacob Neusner: Jacob Neusner (born July 28, 1932) is an American academic scholar of Judaism who lives in Rhinebeck, New York.
Joachim I Nestor Elector of Brandenburg: Joachim I Nestor (21 February 1484 - 11 July 1535) was a Prince-elector of the Margraviate of Brandenburg (1499-1535). He was a member of the House of Hohenzollern and nicknamed after the Nestor of Greek mythology.
John Keats: John Keats ("keets"; 31 October 1795 - 23 February 1821) was the latest born of the great Romantic poets. Along with Byron and Shelley, he was one of the key figures in the second generation of the movement, despite publishing his work over only a four-year period. During his short life, his work was not well received by critics, but his posthumous influence on poets such as Alfred Tennyson and Wilfred Owen was significant.
JMS: JMS is a three-letter acronym with multiple meanings, as described below:
Jewish Defense League: The Jewish Defense League or JDL is a Jewish organization whose stated goal is to "protect Jews from antisemitism by whatever means necessary". While the group asserts that it "unequivocally condemns terrorism", and claims to have a "strict no-tolerance policy against terrorism and other felonious acts," it has been characterized as "a right-wing terrorist group" by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and as a hate group involved in "anti-Arab terrorism" by the Southern Poverty Law Center.
Jet Propulsion Laboratory: Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) is a federally funded research and development center and NASA field center located in the San Gabriel Valley area of Los Angeles County, California, United States. The facility is situated in the northern portion of Pasadena. JPL is managed by the nearby California Institute of Technology (Caltech) for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
John Rutsey: John Howard Rutsey (May 14, 1953 - May 11, 2008) from Ontario, Canada was a former drummer, most recognized for being a co-founding member of Rush along with Alex Lifeson and Jeff Jones (who was replaced by Geddy Lee).
John von Neumann Theory Prize: The John von Neumann Theory Prize of the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences is awarded annually to an individual (or sometimes a group) who has made fundamental and sustained contributions to theory in operations research and the management sciences. The Prize named after mathematician John von Neumann is awarded for a body of work, rather than a single piece. The Prize was intended to reflect contributions that have stood the test of time.
Jean Richard: For the French historian, see Jean Richard (historian) Jean Richard (April 18, 1921 - December 12, 2001) was a famous French actor. He was born in the town of Bessines, France and began his career as a caricaturist before acting in comedy films. Although he played a part in more than 80 movies, it was his TV role as Maigret that made him famous. He portrayed the famous inspector character from Georges Simenon's novels for over 20 years. He also created the well-known Jean Richard Circus.
John Walker Lindh: John Phillip Walker Lindh (born February 9, 1981) is an American citizen who was captured as an enemy combatant during the United States' 2001 invasion of Afghanistan. He is now serving a 20-year prison sentence in connection with his participation in Afghanistan's Taliban army. He was captured during the Battle of Qala-i-Jangi, a violent Taliban prison uprising where American CIA officer Johnny "Mike" Spann was killed.
Joint Interoperability of Tactical Command and Control Systems: Joint Interoperability of Tactical Command and Control Systems or JINTACCS is a United States military standard for the development and maintenance of tactical information exchange configuration items (CIs) and operational procedures. It was originated to ensure that the command and control (C2 and C3) and weapons systems of all US military services and NATO forces would be interoperable.
John Ashcroft: John David Ashcroft (born May 9, 1942) is a United States politician who was the 79th United States attorney general. He served during the first term of President George W. Bush from 2001 until 2005. Ashcroft was previously the 50th Governor of Missouri (1985-1993) and a US senator from Missouri (1995-2001).
Japheth: Japheth is one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible. In Arabic citations, his name is normally given as Yafeth bin Nuh (Japheth son of Noah).
John Jay: John Jay (December 12, 1745 - May 17, 1829) was an American politician, statesman, revolutionary, diplomat, a Founding Father of the United States, President of the Continental Congress from 1778 to 1779 and, from 1789 to 1795, the first Chief Justice of the United States. During and after the American Revolution, he was a minister (ambassador) to Spain and France, helping to fashion United States foreign policy and to secure favorable peace terms from the British and French.
Jason Alexander: Jason Alexander (born September 23, 1959) is an American actor, comedian and singer. He is best known for his role as George Costanza on the television series Seinfeld, appearing in the sitcom from 1989 to 1998. He also has had an active career on the stage, appearing in several Broadway musicals including Jerome Robbins' Broadway in 1989, for which he won the Tony Award as Best Actor in a Musical. He appeared in the Los Angeles production of The Producers with Martin Short.
John Wycliffe: John Wycliffe (also spelled Wyclif, Wycliff, Wiclef, Wicliffe, or Wickliffe) (mid-1320s - 31 December 1384) was an English theologian, lay preacher, translator, reformist and university teacher who was known as an early dissident in the Roman Catholic Church during the 14th century. His followers are known as Lollards, a somewhat rebellious movement which preached a legalistic Gospel.
Jet stream: Jet streams are fast flowing, narrow air currents found in the atmospheres of some planets. The main jet streams are located near the tropopause, the transition between the troposphere (where temperature decreases with height) and the stratosphere (where temperature increases with height). The major jet streams on earth are westerly winds (flowing west to east).
Just another Perl hacker: Just another Perl hacker, or JAPH, typically refers to a Perl program which prints "Just another Perl hacker," (the comma is canonical but is occasionally omitted). Short JAPH programs are often used as signatures in online forums, or as T-shirt designs. The phrase or acronym is also occasionally used for a signature. JAPH programs are classically done using extremely obfuscated methods, in the spirit of the Obfuscated C Contest.
Joe Orton: John Kingsley ("Joe") Orton (1 January 1933 in Leicester- 9 August 1967 in Islington, London) was an English playwright. In a short but prolific career lasting from 1964 until his death, he shocked, outraged and amused audiences with his scandalous black comedies. Ortonesque became a recognised term for "outrageously macabre".
List of writing techniques: Captions: pictures to be titled or explained in writing Captured moments: vignettes of life, vividly described Catharsis: writing a specified time, similar to a track sprint Unsent letters: Note Taking about an image connection sense feeling about something that's happened
Julian Jaynes: Julian Jaynes (February 27, 1920 - November 21, 1997) was an American psychologist, best known for his book The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind (1976), in which he argued that ancient peoples did not access consciousness (did not possess an introspective mind-space), but instead had their behavior directed by auditory hallucinations, which they interpreted as the voice of their chief, king, or the gods.
John Harrison: John Harrison (24 March 1693 - 24 March 1776) was a self-educated English clockmaker. He invented the marine chronometer, a long-sought device in solving the problem of establishing the East-West position or longitude of a ship at sea, thus revolutionising and extending the possibility of safe long distance sea travel in the Age of Sail.
Julia Kristeva: Julia Kristeva (born 24 June 1941) is a Bulgarian-French philosopher, literary critic, psychoanalyst, sociologist, feminist, and, most recently, novelist, who has lived in France since the mid-1960s. Kristeva became influential in international critical analysis, cultural theory and feminism after publishing her first book Semeiotik in 1969.
Josephus: Josephus (37 - c. 100 AD), also Yosef Ben Matityahu (Joseph son of Matthias) and Titus Flavius Josephus was a first-century Jewish historian of priestly and royal ancestry who recorded the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD. Josephus was a law-observant Jew who believed in the compatibility of Judaism and Graeco-Roman thought. His most important works were The Jewish War (c. 75) and Antiquities of the Jews (c. 94). The Jewish War recounts the Jewish revolt against Rome (66-70).
Just intonation: In music, just intonation is any musical tuning in which the frequencies of notes are related by ratios of small whole numbers. Any interval tuned in this way is called a just interval. The two notes in any just interval are members of the same harmonic series. Arbitrary frequency ratios such as 1024:927 are not generally said to be justly tuned. Just intonation can be contrasted and compared with equal temperament, which dominates Western orchestras and default MIDI tuning.
Jan Borukowski: Jan Borukowski of Bielin (1524 - 1584) was the Bishop of Przemyl, and was the royal secretary of Poland from 1553. In 1569, he signed the act of annexation of Podlasie, Volhynia and Kiev to the kingdom during Sejm in Lublin.
Judy Blume: Judy Blume (born Judy Sussman; February 12, 1938) is an American author. She has written many novels for children and young adults which have exceeded sales of 80 million and been translated into 31 languages.
Joel Marangella: Joel Marangella is an American oboist who has performed in concert with many of the world's leading orchestras. A founding member of the Speculum Musicae, he is currently the principal oboist for the West Australian Symphony Orchestra and a founding member of the New Music Ensemble.
John Pople: Sir John Anthony Pople, KBE, FRS, (October 31, 1925 - March 15, 2004) was a theoretical chemist. Born in Burnham on Sea, Somerset, England, he attended Bristol Grammar School. He won a scholarship to Trinity College, Cambridge in 1943. He received his B. A. in 1946. Between 1945 and 1947 he worked at the Bristol Aeroplane Company. He then returned to Cambridge University and was awarded his doctorate degree in mathematics in 1951.
Jerry Falwell: Jerry Lamon Falwell, Sr. (August 11, 1933 - May 15, 2007) was an American Baptist cleric, televangelist, and a conservative commentator. He was the founding pastor of the Thomas Road Baptist Church, a megachurch in Lynchburg, Virginia. He founded Lynchburg Christian Academy in 1967, Liberty University in 1971, and cofounded the Moral Majority in 1979. Falwell led services at Thomas Road for many years.
Jay Leno: James Douglas Muir "Jay" Leno (born April 28, 1950) is an American stand-up comedian and television host. From 1992 to 2009, Leno was the host of NBC's The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. Beginning in September 2009, Leno started a primetime talk show, titled The Jay Leno Show, which aired weeknights at 10:00 p.m. , also on NBC. After The Jay Leno Show was cancelled in January 2010 amid a host controversy, Leno returned to host The Tonight Show with Jay Leno on March 1, 2010.
Janus kinase: Janus kinase (JAK, or "Just another kinase") is a family of intracellular non-receptor tyrosine kinases that transduce cytokine-mediated signals via the JAK-STAT pathway. They were initially named "just another kinase" 1 & 2 (since they were just two of a large number of discoveries in a PCR-based screen of kinases), but were ultimately published as "Janus kinase".
Johannes Nicolaus Br nsted: Johannes Nicolaus Brsted born in Varde (February 22, 1879 - December 17, 1947) was a Danish physical chemist. He received a degree in chemical engineering in 1899 and his Ph. D. in 1908 from the University of Copenhagen. He was immediately appointed professor of inorganic and physical chemistry at Copenhagen. In 1906 he published his first of many papers on electron affinity.
Joan of Arc: Saint Joan of Arc or The Maid of Orlns is a national heroine of France and a Catholic saint. A peasant girl born in eastern France, she led the French army to several important victories during the Hundred Years' War, claiming divine guidance, and was indirectly responsible for the coronation of Charles VII. She was captured by the Burgundians, sold to the English, tried by an ecclesiastical court, and burned at the stake when she was nineteen years old.
Jamiroquai: Jamiroquai (pronounced /dirkwaj/) are an English jazz funk and acid jazz band. Jamiroquai were initially the most prominent component in the early-1990s London-based acid jazz movement, alongside groups such as Incognito, the James Taylor Quartet, the Brand New Heavies, Galliano, and Corduroy. Subsequent albums have explored other musical directions such as pop, rock and electronica. Jamiroquai have sold more than 35 million albums worldwide.
John Sutter: John Augustus Sutter (February 15, 1803 - June 18, 1880) was a Swiss pioneer of California known for his association with the California Gold Rush by the discovery of gold by James W. Marshall and the mill making team at Sutter's Mill, and for establishing Sutter's Fort in the area that would eventually become Sacramento, the state's capital.
Jacob Grimm: Jacob Ludwig Carl Grimm (also Karl) (Hanau, 4 January 1785 - 20 September 1863 in Berlin), German philologist, jurist and mythologist, was born at Hanau, in Hesse-Kassel (or Hesse-Cassel). He is best known as the discoverer of Grimm's Law, the author (with his brother) of the monumental Deutsches Wterbuch, the author of Deutsche Mythologie, and more popularly, as one of the Brothers Grimm, as the editor of Grimm's Fairy Tales.
Jerome Callet: Jerome Callet (born April 24, 1930) is a musician, teacher and designer of brass instruments. He resides and works in Staten Island, New York. Callet, spends the bulk of his time teaching embouchure for all brass instruments having recently retired from his long-time practice of designing his own line of brass mouthpieces, trumpets, and trombones. Jerome Callet is the most well-known teacher of the "Tongue Controlled Embouchure" method for brass instruments.
John Adams composer: John Coolidge Adams (born February 15, 1947) is a Pulitzer Prize-winning American composer with strong roots in minimalism. His best-known works include On the Transmigration of Souls (2002), a choral piece commemorating the victims of the September 11, 2001 attacks (for which he won the Pulitzer Prize for Music in 2003), and Shaker Loops (1978), a minimalist four-movement work for strings.
Jon Voight: Jonathan Vincent "Jon" Voight (born December 29, 1938) is an American film and television actor. He came to prominence at the end of the 1960s, with a performance as a would-be hustler in 1969's Best Picture winner, Midnight Cowboy, for which he earned his first Academy Award nomination.
History of Java: The History of Java can refer to: The history of the island of Java The 1817 book on the history of the island, by Stamford Raffles, founder of Singapore. The version history of the Java programming language. The history of the Java platform.
Java coffee: Java coffee is a coffee produced on the island of Java. In the United States, the term "Java" by itself is slang for coffee generally. The Indonesian phrase Kopi Jawa refers not only to the origin of the coffee, but is used to distinguish the strong, black, very sweet coffee, with powdered grains in the drink, from other forms of the drink. The Dutch began cultivation of coffee trees on Java (part of the Dutch East Indies) in the 17th century and it has been exported globally since.
John Climacus: Saint John Climacus ( c. 7th Century CE), also known as John of the Ladder, John Scholasticus and John Sinaites, was a 7th century Christian monk at the monastery on Mount Sinai. He is revered as a saint by the Roman Catholic, Oriental Orthodox, Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches. We have almost no reliable information about John's life. There is in existence an ancient Vita, Life of the saint by a monk named Daniel of Raithu monastery.
Java board game: Java is a German-style board game designed by Wolfgang Kramer and Michael Kiesling and published in 2000 by Ravensburger in German and by Rio Grande Games in English. It is illustrated by Franz Vohwinkel. Java won the Deutscher Spiele Preis 9th place in 2001 and the Games Magazine Best Advanced Strategy Game in 2002. It is the second game in the Mask Trilogy, following Tikal and followed by Mexica. The game provides the atmosphere of the island of Java on a hexagonal board.
John Radcliffe physician: John Radcliffe (1652-1714) was an English physician. A number of landmark buildings in Oxford, including the Radcliffe Camera, the Radcliffe Infirmary, and the Radcliffe Observatory were named after him. Radcliffe was born in Wakefield, Yorkshire, and was educated at Queen Elizabeth Grammar School. He graduated from Oxford University, where he was an exhibitioner at University College tutored by Obadiah Walker, to become a Fellow of Lincoln College. He obtained his M.D.
Joual: Joual is the common name for the linguistic features of basilectal Quebec French that are associated with the French-speaking working class in Montreal which has become a symbol of national identity for a large number of artists from that area. Speakers of Quebec French from outside Montreal usually have other names to identify their speech, such as Magoua in Trois-Rivies, and Chaouin south of Trois-Rivies.
Joseph Lister 1st Baron Lister: Joseph Lister, 1st Baron Lister, OM, FRS, PC (5 April 1827 - 10 February 1912) was an English surgeon and a pioneer of antiseptic surgery, who promoted the idea of sterile surgery while working at the Glasgow Royal Infirmary. Lister successfully introduced carbolic acid to sterilise surgical instruments and to clean wounds, which led to reduced post-operative infections and made surgery safer for patients.
Johann Homann: Johann Baptist Homann (20 March 1664 - 1 July 1724) was a German geographer and cartographer, who made maps of the Americas . Homann was born in Oberkammlach near Kammlach, which is now in Bavaria. Although educated at a Jesuit school, he eventually converted to Protestantism. In 1715 Homann was appointed Imperial Geographer of the Holy Roman Empire. Giving such privileges to individuals was an added right that the Holy Roman Emperor enjoyed.
Jadavpur University: Jadavpur University (JU) is an educational and research institution in India. It is located in Kolkata, West Bengal and comprises two campuses - the main campus at Jadavpur and the new campus at Salt Lake. Jadavpur University is also closely affiliated to leading research institutes like the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science and the Central Glass and Ceramics Research Institute. It is considered to be one of the top engineering institutes in India.
Jewel: Jewel may mean: Gemstone or jewellery Jewel (novel), by Bret Lott Jewel (film), a 2001 television film Jessica Jones, a superheroine in the Marvel universe Jewel (supermarket), a U.S.
James Lovelock: James Ephraim Lovelock, CH, CBE, FRS (born 26 July 1919) is an independent scientist, author, researcher, environmentalist, and futurist who lives in Devon, England. He is known for proposing the Gaia hypothesis, in which he postulates that the Earth functions as a kind of superorganism.
James L. Jones: James Logan Jones Jr. (born December 19, 1943) is the current United States National Security Advisor and a retired United States Marine Corps four-star general. During his military career, he served as Commander, United States European Command (COMUSEUCOM) and Supreme Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR) from 2003 to 2006 and as the 32nd Commandant of the Marine Corps from July 1999 to January 2003. Jones retired from the Marine Corps on February 1, 2007, after 40 years of service.
John Akii-Bua: John Akii-Bua (December 3, 1949 - June 20, 1997) was a Ugandan hurdler and the first Olympic champion from his country. Akii-Bua started his athletic career as a hurdler on the short distance, but coached by British-born coach Malcolm Arnold, he was introduced to the 400 m hurdles . After finishing 4th in the 1970 Commonwealth Games and running the fastest season time in 1971, he was not a big favourite for the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, having limited competition experience.
Jule Styne: Jule Styne (December 31, 1905 - September 20, 1994) was a British-born American songwriter especially famous for a series of Broadway musicals, which included several very well known and frequently revived shows.
Joachim von Ribbentrop: Ulrich Friedrich Wilhelm Joachim von Ribbentrop (30 April 1893 - 16 October 1946) was Foreign Minister of Germany from 1938 until 1945. He was later hanged for war crimes after the Nuremberg Trials.
Julia Roberts: Julia Fiona Roberts (born October 28, 1967) is an American actress. She is known for starring in the romantic comedy Pretty Woman opposite Richard Gere, which grossed $463 million worldwide. After receiving Academy Award nominations for Steel Magnolias in 1990 and Pretty Woman in 1991, she won the Academy Award for Best Actress in 2001 for her performance in Erin Brockovich.
John the Evangelist: John the Evangelist (c. 1 AD - c. 100) is the conventional name for the author of the Gospel of John. Traditionally he has been identified with the author of all the Johannine works in the New Testament - the three Epistles of John and the Book of Revelation, written by a John of Patmos - as well as with John the Apostle and the Beloved Disciple mentioned in the Book of John. However, all of these connections are much debated.
John Sealy Hospital: John Sealy Hospital is a hospital that is a part of the University of Texas Medical Branch complex in Galveston, Texas, United States. Sealy opened on January 10, 1890. It was founded by the widow and brother of one of the richest citizens of Texas, John Sealy after his death.
John of England: John (24 December 1167 - 19 October 1216) was King of England from 6 April 1199 until his death. He acceded to the throne as the younger brother of King Richard I, who died without issue. John was the youngest of five sons of King Henry II of England and Eleanor, Duchess of Aquitaine, and was their second surviving son to ascend the throne; thus, he continued the line of Plantagenet or Angevin kings of England.
Jack Kirby: Jacob Kurtzberg (August 28, 1917 - February 6, 1994), better known by the pen name Jack Kirby, was an American comic book artist, writer and editor. Growing up poor in New York City, Kurtzberg entered the nascent comics industry in the 1930s. He drew various comic strips under different pseudonyms, ultimately settling on Jack Kirby. In 1941, Kirby and writer Joe Simon created the highly successful superhero character Captain America for Timely Comics.
Johnny Weissmuller: Johnny Weissmuller (born Johann Peter Weimller; June 2, 1904 - January 20, 1984) was a Romanian-born German-American swimmer and actor. Weissmuller was one of the world's best swimmers in the 1920s, winning five Olympic gold medals and one bronze medal. He won fifty-two US National Championships and set sixty-seven world records. After his swimming career, he became the sixth actor to portray Tarzan in films, a role he played in twelve motion pictures.
Jean Grey: Jean Grey-Summers is a fictional comic book superheroine appearing in books published by Marvel Comics. She has been known under the aliases Marvel Girl and later, Phoenix and Dark Phoenix, and is best known as one of five original members of the X-Men, for her relationship with husband Cyclops, and for her central role and transformation in the classic X-Men storyline, "The Dark Phoenix Saga. " Jean Grey-Summers is a mutant born with telepathic and telekinetic powers.
Jones calculus: In optics, polarized light can be described using the Jones calculus, invented by R. C. Jones in 1941. Polarized light is represented by a Jones vector, and linear optical elements are represented by Jones matrices. When light crosses an optical element the resulting polarization of the emerging light is found by taking the product of the Jones matrix of the optical element and the Jones vector of the incident light.
Jack Brabham: Sir John Arthur "Jack" Brabham, AO, OBE (born 2 April 1926) is a former Australian racing driver who was Formula One champion in 1959, 1960 and 1966. He was a founder of the Brabham racing team and race car constructor that bore his name. Brabham was a Royal Australian Air Force flight mechanic and ran a small engineering workshop before he started racing midget cars in 1948.
Jacques Dupuis priest: Jacques Dupuis was a Belgian Jesuit priest.
Josip Broz Tito: Josip Broz Tito; 7 or 25 May 1892 - 4 May 1980 was a Yugoslav revolutionary and statesman. He was Secretary-General (later President) of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia (1939-80), and went on to lead the World War II Yugoslav resistance movement, the Yugoslav Partisans (1941-45). After the war, he was the authoritarian Prime Minister (1943-63) and later President (1953-80) of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY).
John Stauber: John Stauber (1953 -) is an American writer and political activist who has co-authored five books about propaganda by governments, private interests and the PR industry. They include one book about how industry manipulates science, one about the history and current scope of the public relations industry, and one about mad cow disease, which predicted the surfacing of the disease within the United States.
James P. Hogan writer: James Patrick Hogan (born 27 June 1941) is a British science fiction author.
Jeff Lynne: Jeffrey Lynne is an English songwriter, composer, arranger, singer, guitarist, and record producer who gained fame as the leader and sole constant member of Electric Light Orchestra and was a co-founder and member of The Traveling Wilburys. Lynne has produced recordings for artists such as The Beatles, Brian Wilson, Roy Orbison, Del Shannon and Tom Petty. He has co-written songs with Petty and also with George Harrison whose 1987 album Cloud Nine was co-produced by Lynne and Harrison.
Jeannine Taylor: Jeannine Taylor (born June 2, 1954) is an American actress. She played "Marcie Cunningham" in the 1980 horror movie Friday the 13th. She also starred in a TV film called The Royal Romance of Charles and Diana. She married James McConnell on February 3, 1990. They currently live in Keene, New Hampshire.
Judge Dredd: Judge Joe Dredd is a comics character whose strip in the British science fiction anthology 2000 AD is the magazine's longest running (having been featured there since its second issue in 1977). Dredd is a law enforcement officer in a violent city of the future where uniformed Judges combine the powers of police, judge, jury and executioner. Dredd and his fellow Judges are empowered to arrest, sentence and even execute criminals on the spot.
James R. Flynn: James Robert Flynn (born 1934), aka Jim Flynn, Emeritus Professor of Political Studies at the University of Otago in Dunedin, New Zealand, researches intelligence and has become well known for his discovery of the Flynn effect, the continued year-after-year increase of IQ scores in all parts of the world.
John Hay: John Milton Hay (October 8, 1838 - July 1, 1905) was an American statesman, diplomat, author, journalist, and private secretary and assistant to Abraham Lincoln.
Jacobite: Jacobite may refer to: In ancient days, the term was used for the followers of faith propounded by a 6th century Bishop Jacob Baradaeus.
Joy Division: Joy Division were an English rock band formed in 1976 in Salford, Greater Manchester. Originally named Warsaw, the band primarily consisted of Ian Curtis (vocals and occasional guitar), Bernard Sumner (guitar and keyboards), Peter Hook (bass guitar and backing vocals) and Stephen Morris (drums and percussion). Joy Division rapidly evolved from their initial punk rock influences, to develop a sound and style that pioneered the post-punk movement of the late 1970s.
Jasmuheen: Jasmuheen (born 1957 as Ellen Greve) is an Australia-based proponent of 'pranic nourishment' or breatharianism, defined as the practice of living without food or fluid of any sort. She appears at New Age conferences and conducts spiritual retreats in many countries which are in part funded by the sale of her books and audios.
Johnny Bench: Johnny Lee Bench is a former professional baseball catcher who played in the Major Leagues for the Cincinnati Reds from 1967 to 1983 and is a member of the National Baseball Hall of Fame. Bench, a 14-time All-Star selection and a two-time National League Most Valuable Player, was the best offensive and defensive catcher of the 1970s, and was a key member of the The Big Red Machine, which won six division titles, four National League pennants, and two World Series championships.
Jell-O: Jell-O is a brand name belonging to U.S. -based Kraft Foods for a number of gelatin desserts, including fruit gels, puddings and no-bake cream pies. The brand's popularity has led to its becoming a generic term for gelatin dessert across the U.S. and Canada.
Javier Saviola: Javier Pedro Saviola Ferndez (born 11 December 1981) is an Argentine footballer who currently plays as a striker for Benfica in the Portuguese Liga. Known for his speed and ability to score from almost any position, he is also an Argentine international, and was named, as the youngest player, to Pel's FIFA 100 list of the 125 greatest living footballers. Saviola also holds Spanish nationality.
Book of Jarom: The Book of Jarom is one of the books that make up the Book of Mormon. According to the text it was written by Jarom, a descendant of the prophet Nephi. The book consists of a single chapter. According to the chapter heading, the book covers the time period between ca 420 BC and 361 BC and describes the efforts of the Nephite prophets to "keep them [the Nephites] in the way of truth".
Junkers Ju 87: The Junkers Ju 87 or Stuka was a two-seat German ground-attack aircraft. Designed by Hermann Pohlmann, the Stuka first flew in 1935 and made its combat debut in 1936 as part of the Luftwaffes Condor Legion during the Spanish Civil War. The aircraft was easily recognizable by its inverted gull wings, fixed spatted undercarriage and its infamous Jericho-Trompete ("Jericho Trumpet") wailing siren, becoming the propaganda symbol of German air power and the "Blitzkrieg" victories of 1939-1942.
Keanu Reeves: Keanu Charles Reeves (born September 2, 1964) is a Canadian-American actor, best known for his portrayals of a spaced-out metalhead in Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure (which went on to become a cult classic) and in two action movie projects that were both financial and critical successes: the "ticking time bomb" thriller Speed and the science fiction-action trilogy The Matrix.
Kludge: A kludge (or kluge) is a workaround, a quick-and-dirty solution, a clumsy or inelegant, yet effective, solution to a problem, typically using parts that are cobbled together. This term is diversely used in fields such as computer science, aerospace engineering, Internet slang, and evolutionary neuroscience.
King Crimson: King Crimson are an English rock band, founded in 1969 by guitarist Robert Fripp and drummer Michael Giles. Typically categorised as a foundational progressive rock group, the band has in fact incorporated diverse influences and instrumentation during its long history, drawing from jazz, classical and experimental music to psychedelic rock, heavy metal, new wave, hard rock, gamelan, folk music, electronica and drum and bass.
Koto musical instrument: The koto (or) is a traditional Japanese stringed musical instrument derived from the Chinese guzheng. The koto is the national instrument of Japan. Koto are about 180 centimetres (71 in) width, and made from kiri wood. They have 13 strings that are strung over 13 movable bridges along the width of the instrument. Players can adjust the string pitches by moving these bridges before playing, and use three finger picks (on thumb, index finger, and middle finger) to pluck the strings.
Kishka: Kishka can be:
Knitting: Knitting is a method by which thread or yarn may be turned into cloth. Knitting consists of consecutive loops, called stitches. As each row progresses, a new loop is pulled through an existing loop. The active stitches are held on a needle until another loop can be passed through them. This process eventually results in a final product, often a garment. Knitting may be done by hand or by machine. By hand, numerous styles and methods of knitting exits.
Karl Popper: Sir Karl Raimund Popper, CH, FRS, FBA (28 July 1902 - 17 September 1994) was an Austrian and British philosopher and a professor at the London School of Economics. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest philosophers of science of the 20th century; he also wrote extensively on social and political philosophy.
Kilogram: The kilogram is the base unit of mass in the International System of Units (SI, from the French Le Syste International dUnit), which is the modern standard governing the metric system. The kilogram is defined as being equal to the mass of the International Prototype Kilogram (IPK), which is almost exactly equal to the mass of one liter of water at 4. It is the only SI base unit with an SI prefix as part of its name.
KDE: KDE is a free software project based around its flagship product, a cross-platform desktop environment designed to run on Linux, FreeBSD, Windows and Mac OS X systems.. It's the default desktop environment for many Linux distributions, such as openSUSE, Mandriva Linux, Kubuntu and Pardus. The goal of the project is to provide basic desktop functions and applications for daily needs as well as tools and documentation for developers to write stand-alone applications for the system.
King disambiguation: King may be a title for a head of state. King may also refer to:
Konrad Adenauer: Konrad Hermann Joseph Adenauer (5 January 1876 - 19 April 1967) was a German statesman. Although his political career spanned sixty years, beginning as early as 1906, he is most noted for his role as the first Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany (then known as West Germany) from 1949-1963 and chairman of the Christian Democratic Union from 1950 to 1966. He was the oldest chancellor ever to serve Germany, beginning his first ministry at the age of 73 and leaving at the age of 87.
Khazars: The Khazars were a semi-nomadic Turkic people who dominated the Pontic steppe and the North Caucasus from the 7th to the 10th century. The name "Khazar" seems to be tied to a Turkic verb form meaning "wandering". In the 7th century, the Khazars founded an independent Khaganate in the Northern Caucasus along the Caspian Sea.
Frost rapper: Arturo Molina Jr. (born May 31, 1965), better known as Frost (Originally Kid Frost), is a Mexican American hip hop artist.
Kurtis Blow: Kurtis Walker, better known by his stage name Kurtis Blow, is an American rapper and music producer. He is one of the first commercially successful rappers and the first to sign with a major record label. "The Breaks", a single from his 1980 debut album, is the first certified gold rap song.
Kamikaze: The Kamikaze were suicide attacks by military aviators from the Empire of Japan against Allied naval vessels in the closing stages of the Pacific campaign of World War II, designed to destroy as many warships as possible. Kamikaze pilots would attempt to intentionally crash their aircraftoften laden with explosives, bombs, torpedoes and full fuel tanksinto Allied ships.
Demographics of Kazakhstan: The Demographics of Kazakhstan enumerate the demographic features of the population of Kazakhstan, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population.
Geography of Kazakhstan: Kazakhstan is located in Central Asia, northwest of the People's Republic of China, though the area of the country west of the Ural River is geographically, if not politically, located within Europe. With an area of about 2,717,300 square kilometers, Kazakhstan is more than twice the combined size of the other four Central Asian states, or about twice the size of Alaska.
Kazakhstan: Kazakhstan, officially the Republic of Kazakhstan, is a country in Eurasia ranked as the ninth largest country in the world. It is also the world's largest landlocked country. Its territory of 2,727,300 km is greater than Western Europe. It is neighbored clockwise from the north by Russia, China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, and also borders on a significant part of the Caspian Sea. The capital was moved in 1997 from from Almaty, Kazakhstan's largest city, to Astana.
Politics of Kazakhstan: The politics of Kazakhstan takes place in the framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Kazakhstan is head of state and nominates the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament.
Economy of Kazakhstan: The economy of Kazakhstan is the largest economy in Central Asia. It possesses enormous fossil fuel reserves as well as minerals and metals. It also has considerable agricultural potential with its vast steppe lands accommodating both livestock and grain production, as well as developed space infrastructure, which took over all launches to the International Space Station from the Space Shuttle. The mountains in the south are important for apples and walnuts; both species grow wild there.
Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan: The Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan are derived from remnant forces of the former Soviet Union. On May 7, 1992, the President of Kazakhstan took a number of actions regarding defense.
History of Kenya: The history of Kenya as a land occupied by humans extends for millions of years, even though the history of Kenya as an independent state is relatively short.
Foreign relations of Kazakhstan: Foreign relations of Kazakhstan are primarily based on economic and political security. The Nazarbayev administration has tried to balance relations with Russia and the United States by sending petroleum and natural gas to its northern neighbor at artificially low prices while assisting the U.S. in the War on Terror.
Politics of Kenya: The Politics of Kenya take place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Kenya is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Recent constitutional amendments have enabled sharing of executive powers between the President and a Prime Minister. Executive power is exercised by the government, with powers shared between the President and a Prime Minister, who coordinates and supervises the cabinet.
Demographics of Kenya: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Kenya, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Kenya has a very diverse population that includes most major ethnic and linguistic groups of Africa. Traditional pastoralists, rural farmers, Muslims, Christians, and urban residents of Nairobi and other cities contribute to the cosmopolitan culture.
Economy of Kenya: Kenya's economy is market-based, with some state-owned infrastructure enterprises, and maintains a liberalized external trade system. The economys heavy dependence on rain-fed agriculture and the tourism sector leaves it vulnerable to cycles of boom and bust. The agricultural sector employs nearly 75 percent of the countrys 37 million people. Half of the sectors output remains subsistence production.
Geography of Kenya: The geography of Kenya is diverse. Kenya has a coastline on the Indian Ocean, which contains swamps of East African mangroves. Inland are broad plains and numerous hills. Central and Western Kenya is characterized by the Great Rift Valley home to three of Africa's highest mountains, Mount Kenya, Mount Elgon and Kilimanjaro. The Kakamega Forest in western Kenya is relic of an East African rainforest. Much larger is Mau Forest, the largest forest complex in East Africa.
Transport in Kenya: Kenya has a relatively well-developed transport system that compares well with other counties in the region. Kenya has an extensive network of paved and unpaved roads. The railway system links the nations ports and major cities. A line also connects Kenya with neighbouring Uganda. There are 15 airports with paved runways.
Foreign relations of Kenya: Despite internal tensions in Sudan and Ethiopia, Kenya has maintained good relations with its northern neighbours. Recent relations with Uganda and Tanzania have improved as the three countries work for mutual economic benefit. Kenya maintains a moderate profile in Third World politics. Its relations with Western countries are generally friendly, although current political and economic instabilities are often blamed on Western pressures.
Military of Kenya: The Kenyan military consists, according to the Constitution, of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Its main mission is defence of the country's borders in a notoriously unstable region. The military enjoys, in general, a good reputation. It is regularly deployed in peace keeping missions around the world and generally commended for its professionalism.
History of Kiribati: The islands which now form the Republic of Kiribati have been inhabited for at least seven hundred years, and possibly much longer. The initial Micronesian population, which remains the overwhelming majority today, was visited by Polynesian and Melanesian invaders before the first European sailors "discovered" the islands in the 16th century. For much of the subsequent period, the main island chain, the Gilbert Islands, was ruled as part of the British Empire.
Geography of Kiribati: This article describes the geography of the Republic of Kiribati. Kiribati consists of 32 atolls and one island scattered over all four hemispheres in an expanse of ocean equivalent in size to the continental United States. The islands lie roughly halfway between Hawaii and Australia in the Micronesian region of the South Pacific. The three main island groupings are the Gilbert Islands, Phoenix Islands, and Line Islands.
Kiribati: Kiribati, officially the Republic of Kiribati, is an island nation located in the central tropical Pacific Ocean. It is composed of 32 atolls and one raised coral island, dispersed over 3,500,000 square kilometres,(1,351,000 square miles) straddling the equator, and bordering the International Date Line to the east. The name Kiribati is the local pronunciation of "Gilberts", derived from the main island chain, the Gilbert Islands. Kiribati became independent from the United Kingdom in 1979.
Demographics of Kiribati: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Kiribati, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Kiribati: Politics of Kiribati takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Kiribati is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the House of Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Foreign relations of Kiribati: Kiribati is a full member of The Commonwealth, the IMF and the World Bank, and became a full member of the UN in 1999. Kiribati hosted the Thirty-First Pacific Islands Forum in October 2000. Kiribati has Least Developed Country Status and its interests rarely extend beyond the region. Through accession to the Cotonou Agreement, Kiribati is also a member of the African Caribbean and Pacific Group.
Transport in Kiribati: Railways: 0 km Highways: total: 670 km (1996 est. ) paved: NA km unpaved: NA km note: 27 km are paved in South Tarawa (2001) Waterways: small network of canals, totaling 5 km, in Line Islands Ports and harbors: Banaba, Betio, English Harbor, Kanton Merchant marine: total: 1 ship (1,000 GRT or over) totaling 1,291 GRT/1,295 metric tons deadweight (DWT) ships by type: passenger/cargo 1 (2002 est.
Kingman Reef: Kingman Reef is a largely submerged, uninhabited triangular shaped reef with its apex in the north, located in the North Pacific Ocean, roughly half way between the Hawaiian Islands and American Samoa at 624N 16224W; / ;6.4 162.4; / 6.4; -162.4Coordinates: 624N 16224W; / ;6.4 162.4; / 6.4; -162.4.
History of Kuwait: The country of Kuwait has a history which dates to ancient times.
Geography of Kuwait: Kuwait is situated in Southwest Asia, bordering the Persian Gulf, between Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Once a small Persian Gulf sheikhdom known locally as a center for pearl diving and boat construction, Kuwait came to international prominence in the post-World War II era largely because of its enormous oil revenues. Yet its history as an autonomous political entity is much older, dating back to the eighteenth century.
Economy of Kuwait: Kuwait is a small, relatively open economy with proven crude oil reserves of about 96 billion barrels (15 km), i.e. about 10% of world reserves. Petroleum accounts for nearly half of GDP, 90% of export revenues, and 95% of government income. Kuwait lacks water and has practically no arable land, thus preventing development of agriculture. About 75% of potable water must be distilled or imported.
Government of Kuwait: The government of Kuwait consists of a parliamentary constitutional monarchy, whereby the Emir is the head of government. The State of Kuwait (Dawlat al Kuwayt) has been ruled by the al-Sabah dynasty since approximately 1752. The constitution, approved and promulgated on November 11, 1962, calls for direct elections to a unicameral parliament (the National Assembly).
Military of Kuwait: Under the constitution, the Emir of Kuwait is the supreme commander of the armed forces with a Minister of Defence who directs the Military of Kuwait through the Chief of the General Staff. The National Guard has its own commander, who reports directly to the minister of defence. Public security forces are belong to the minister of interior. The ruling As Sabah family maintained a tight grip on the centers of power, including many senior posts in the security services.
Demographics of Kuwait: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Kuwait, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Approximately 96% of Kuwait's population is urban. The State of Kuwait's current population is estimated at roughly 3-3.5 million people; counting both locals and foreigners.
Foreign relations of Kuwait: Since its independence in 1961, Kuwait maintained strong international relations with most countries, especially nations within the Arab world. Its vast oil reserves gives it a prominent voice in global economic forums and organizations like the OPEC.
Telecommunications in Kuwait: File:Wiki letter w. svg Please help improve this article by expanding it. Further information might be found on the talk page.
Demographics of Kyrgyzstan: The Demographics of Kyrgyzstan is about the demographic features of the population of Kyrgyzstan, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population. The name Kyrgyz, both for the people and the country, means "forty girls" or "forty tribes", a reference to the epic hero Manas who unified forty tribes against the Mongols, as symbolized by the 40-ray sun on the flag of Kyrgyzstan.
Geography of Kyrgyzstan: Kyrgyzstan is a landlocked nation in Central Asia, west of the People's Republic of China. Less than a seventh the size of Mongolia, at 199,951 square kilometers, Kyrgyzstan is one of the smaller Central Asian states. The national territory extends about 900 kilometers from east to west and 410 kilometers from north to south. Kyrgyzstan is bordered on the east and southeast by China, on the north by Kazakhstan, on the west by Uzbekistan and on the south by Tajikistan.
History of Kyrgyzstan: According to recent historical findings, Kyrgyz history dates back to 201 BC. The early Kyrgyz lived in the upper Yenisey River valley, central Siberia (see Yenisei Kirghiz for details). Chinese and Muslim sources of the 7th-12th centuries AD describe the Kyrgyz as red-haired with fair complexion and green (blue) eyes.
Economy of Kyrgyzstan: The economy of Kyrgyzstan was severely affected by the collapse of the Soviet trading block. In 1990, some 98% of Kyrgyz exports went to other parts of the Soviet Union. Thus, the nation's economic performance in the early 1990s was worse than any other former Soviet republic except war-torn Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Tajikistan. While economic performance has improved in the last few years, difficulties remain in securing adequate fiscal revenues and providing an adequate social safety net.
Telecommunications in Kyrgyzstan: Telephone system: domestic: principally microwave radio relay; one cellular provider, probably limited to Bishkek region international: connections with other CIS countries by landline or microwave radio relay and with other countries by leased connections with Moscow international gateway switch and by satellite; satellite earth stations - 1 Intersputnik and 1 Intelsat; connected internationally by the Trans-Asia-Europe (TAE) fiber-optic line
Transport in Kyrgyzstan: Transport in Kyrgyzstan is severely constrained by the country's alpine topography. Roads have to snake up steep valleys, cross passes of 3,000 m (9,843 ft) altitude and more, and are subject to frequent mud slides and snow avalanches. Winter travel is close to impossible in many of the more remote and high-altitude regions.
Military of Kyrgyzstan: The armed forces of Kyrgyzstan, originally formed from former Soviet forces of the Turkestan Military District stationed in the newly independent state, includes the Army/Land Forces, the Air and Air Defence Forces, the Northern and Southern Groups of Forces, Interior Troops, and Border Troops. For much of the Soviet period, since 1967, the 8th Guards 'Panfilov' Motor Rifle Division was the main military force in the country, and the Division was only disbanded in January 2003.
Kool Keith: Keith Matthew Thornton, better known by his stage name Kool Keith, is an American rapper. A founding member of Ultramagnetic MCs, Kool Keith has also recorded extensively both as a solo artist and under multiple aliases.
Politics of Kyrgyzstan: Kyrgyz Republic File:National emblem of Kyrgyzstan.
Foreign relations of Kyrgyzstan: Kyrgyzstan favors close relations with other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States, particularly Kazakhstan and Russia. While Kyrgyzstan was initially determined to stay in the ruble zone, the stringent conditions set forth by the Russian Government prompted Kyrgyzstan to introduce its own currency, the som, in May 1993. Kyrgyzstan's withdrawal from the ruble zone was done with little prior notification and initially caused tensions in the region.
Kurt Cobain: Kurt Donald Cobain was an American singer-songwriter and musician, best known as the lead singer and guitarist of the rock band Nirvana. With the lead single "Smells Like Teen Spirit" from Nirvana's second album Nevermind (1991), Nirvana entered into the mainstream, popularizing a subgenre of alternative rock called grunge.
Kent Beck: Kent Beck is an American software engineer and the creator of Extreme Programming and Test Driven Development. Beck was one of the 17 original signatories of the Agile Manifesto in 2001. Kent Beck has an M.S. degree in computer science from the University of Oregon. He has pioneered software design patterns, the rediscovery of Test-driven development, as well as the commercial application of Smalltalk.
Swedish krona: The krona has been the currency of Sweden since 1873. It is locally abbreviated kr. The plural form is kronor and one krona is subdivided into 100 e (singular and plural). The currency is sometimes informally referred to as the "Swedish crown" in English. The Swedish krona also circulates in the and Islands alongside the official Finnish currency, the euro.
Krone: Krone (the cognate of Crown) may refer to:
Kattegat: The Kattegat (Danish, commonly used in English), or Kattegatt is a sea area bounded by the Jutland peninsula and the Straits islands of Denmark on the west and south, and the provinces of Scania, Halland and Bohusl in Sweden on the east. The Baltic Sea drains into the Kattegat through the esund and the Danish Straits.
K: K (and k) is the 11th letter of the basic modern Latin alphabet. Its name in English is spelled kay. It is also the eleventh letter of the English alphabet.
Kolmogorov Smirnov test: In statistics, the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (K-S test) is a form of minimum distance estimation used as a nonparametric test of equality of one-dimensional probability distributions used to compare a sample with a reference probability distribution (one-sample K-S test), or to compare two samples (two-sample K-S test).
Kuiper's test: Kuiper's test is used in statistics to test that whether a given distribution, or family of distributions, is contradicted by evidence from a sample of data. It is named after Dutch mathematician Nicolaas Kuiper. Kuiper's test is closely related to the more well-known Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (or K-S test as it is often called). As with the K-S test, the discrepancy statistics D and D represent the maximum deviation above and below of the two cumulative distribution functions being compared.
Kirk Hammett: Kirk Lee Hammett (born November 18, 1962) is the lead guitarist and a songwriter in the band Metallica and has been a member of the band since 1983. Before joining Metallica he formed and named the band Exodus. In 2003 Kirk Hammett was ranked 11th in Rolling Stone's list - The 100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time.
Kansas: Kansas is a state located in the Midwestern United States. It is named after the Kansas River which flows through it, which in turn was named after the Kansa tribe, which inhabited the area. The tribe's name is often said to mean "people of the wind" or "people of the south wind," although this was probably not the term's original meaning. Residents of Kansas are called "Kansans. " Historically, the area was home to large numbers of nomadic Native Americans who hunted bison.
Kinky Friedman: Richard S. "Kinky" Friedman (born November 1, 1944) is an American singer, songwriter, novelist, humorist, politician and former columnist for Texas Monthly who styles himself in the mold of popular Will Rogers and Mark Twain. He was one of two independent candidates in the 2006 election for the office of Governor of Texas. Receiving 12.6% of the vote, Friedman placed fourth in the six-person race.
Kul Tigin: Kul Tigin (Kl Tigin Khan Beng nan Apa Tarkan) (685 - 731 or 732 CE) was a general of the Second Turkic Kaganate. He was a second son of Ilterish Shad and the younger brother of Bilge Kagan (Ch. Mojilian ). During the reign of Mochuo Kagan (), Kul Tigin and his older brother earned reputation for their military prowess. They defeated Kyrgyz, Turgesh, and Karluks, extending the Kaganate territory all the way to the Iron Gates.
Kappa disambiguation: File:Wiktionary-logo-en. svg Look up kappa in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Kenyanthropus: Kenyanthropus platyops is a 3.5 to 3.2 million year old extinct hominin species that was discovered in Lake Turkana, Kenya in 1999 by Justus Erus, who was part of Meave Leakey's team.
Kurt G del: Kurt Gel was an Austrian-American logician, mathematician and philosopher. One of the most significant logicians of all time, Gel made an immense impact upon scientific and philosophical thinking in the 20th century, a time when many, such as Bertrand Russell, A. N. Whitehead and David Hilbert, were pioneering the use of logic and set theory to understand the foundations of mathematics.
Keno: Keno is a lottery or bingo gambling game often played at modern casinos, and is also offered as a game in some state lotteries. A traditional live casino keno game uses a circular glass enclosure called a "bubble" containing 80 balls which determine the balldraw result. Each ball is imprinted with a number 1 through 80. During the balldraw, a blower pushes air into the bubble and mixes the balls.
Karl Marx: Karl Heinrich Marx (May 5, 1818 - March 14, 1883) was a German philosopher, political economist, historian, political theorist, sociologist, communist, and revolutionary, whose ideas are credited as the foundation of modern communism. Marx summarized his approach in the first line of chapter one of The Communist Manifesto, published in 1848: "The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles.
Kleene star: In mathematical logic and computer science, the Kleene star (or Kleene operator or Kleene closure) is a unary operation, either on sets of strings or on sets of symbols or characters. The application of the Kleene star to a set V is written as V*. It is widely used for regular expressions, which is the context in which it was introduced by Stephen Kleene to characterise certain automata.
Kickboxing: Kickboxing refers to the sport of combining technique and style of boxing with kicking. Kickboxing is a standing sport and does not allow continuation of the fight once a combatant has reached the ground, although certain styles of Muay Thai make exceptions to this rule. Kickboxing is often practiced for self-defense, general fitness, or as a full-contact sport.
Kyle MacLachlan: Kyle Merritt MacLachlan (born February 22, 1959) is an American actor. He graduated from the University of Washington in 1982 and, shortly afterward, moved to Hollywood, California to pursue his career. MacLachlan was best known for his roles in cult films Blue Velvet as Jeffrey Beaumont, in Showgirls as Zack Carey, Paul Atreides in Dune, and as Ray Manzarek, legendary keyboardist in the Oliver Stone film The Doors.
Korean language: Korean is the official language of Korea, both South and North. It is also one of the two official languages in the Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture in China. There are about 66 million Korean speakers. In the 15th century a national writing system was commissioned by Sejong the Great, the system being currently called Hangul. Prior to the development of Hangul, Koreans used Hanja (Chinese characters) to write for over a millennium.
Korea: Korea is a civilization and formerly unified nation currently divided into two states. Located on the Korean Peninsula, it borders China to the northwest, Russia to the northeast, and is separated from Japan to the east by the Korea Strait. Korea was united until 1948; at that time it was split into South Korea and North Korea.
Karate: Karate is a martial art developed in the Ryukyu Islands in what is now Okinawa, Japan. It was developed from indigenous fighting methods called te and Chinese kenp. Karate is a striking art using punching, kicking, knee and elbow strikes, and open-handed techniques such as knife-hands. Grappling, locks, restraints, throws, and vital point strikes are taught in some styles. A karate practitioner is called a karateka .
Kevlar: Kevlar is the registered trademark for a para-aramid synthetic fiber, related to other aramids such as Nomex and Technora. Developed at DuPont in 1965, this high strength material was first commercially used in the early 1970s as a replacement for steel in racing tires. Typically it is spun into ropes or fabric sheets that can be used as such or as an ingredient in composite material components.
Kosovo War: The term Kosovo War or Kosovo Conflict is used to describe two sequential and at times parallel armed conflicts in Kosovo: Early 1998-1999: War between Yugoslav police forces, Yugoslav paramilitaries, and the Kosovo Albanian insurgents.
Kent: Kent, originally Cantia, is a county in southeast England, and is one of the home counties. It borders East Sussex, Surrey and Greater London and has a defined boundary with Essex in the middle of the River Thames estuary. The ceremonial county boundaries of Kent include the shire county of Kent and the unitary borough of Medway. Kent has a nominal border with France halfway through the Channel Tunnel.
K. Eric Drexler: Dr. Kim Eric Drexler (born April 25, 1955 in Alameda, California) is an American engineer best known for popularizing the potential of molecular nanotechnology (MNT), from the 1970s and 1980s. His 1991 doctoral thesis at MIT was revised and published as the book "Nanosystems Molecular Machinery Manufacturing and Computation" (1992), which received the Association of American Publishers award for Best Computer Science Book of 1992. He also coined the term grey goo.
Kernel: Kernel may refer to:
Authorized King James Version: The Authorized King James Version is an English translation of the Christian Holy Bible begun in 1604 and completed in 1611 by the Church of England. Printed by the King's Printer, Robert Barker, the first edition included schedules unique to the Church of England; for example, a lectionary for morning and evening prayer.
Kevin Spacey: Kevin Spacey (born July 26, 1959) is an American actor, director, screenwriter, producer, and crooner. He grew up in California, and began his career as a stage actor during the 1980s, before being cast in supporting roles in film and television. He gained critical acclaim in the early 1990s, culminating in his first Academy Award for The Usual Suspects (Best Supporting Actor), followed by a Best Actor Academy Award win for American Beauty (1999).
Karl D nitz: Karl Ditz (16 September 1891 - 24 December 1980) was a German naval Commander who served in the Imperial German Navy during World War I, commanded the German submarine fleet during World War II, and eventually was given control of the entire German Navy. In the final days of the war, Ditz was named by Adolf Hitler as his successor, and after the Fhrer committed suicide, the admiral assumed the office of President of Nazi Germany's Flensburg government.
Kyoto Protocol: The Kyoto Protocol is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC or FCCC), aimed at fighting global warming. The UNFCCC is an international environmental treaty with the goal of achieving "stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would minimize dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system.
Kalevala: The Kalevala is a book and epic poem which Elias Lnrot compiled from Finnish and Karelian folklore in the nineteenth century. It is held to be the national epic of Finland and is traditionally thought of as one of the most significant works of Finnish literature. Karelian citizens and other Balto-Finnic speakers also value the work. The Kalevala is credited with some of the inspiration for the national awakening that ultimately led to Finland's independence from Russia in 1917.
Kaddish: Kaddish is a prayer found in the Jewish prayer service. The central theme of the Kaddish is the magnification and sanctification of God's name. In the liturgy different versions of the Kaddish are used functionally as separators between sections of the service. The term "Kaddish" is often used to refer specifically to "The Mourners' Kaddish", said as part of the mourning rituals in Judaism in all prayer services as well as at funerals and memorials.
Kite disambiguation: Kite may refer to: Kite, a light man-made object designed to be supported by the wind Kite (bird), one of many species of birds of prey in the family Accipitridae Music Kite (Kirsty MacColl album) Kite (Stefanie Sun album) Kite (Kate Bush song), from the album The Kick Inside Kite (song), by U2 Kites (Simon Dupree song) Film Kites (film), by Anurag Basu Kite (1998 film), by Yasuomi Umetsu The Kite (2003 film), also known as Le Cerf-volant by Randa Chahal Sabag Literature The Kite (play), by R.
Kylix: Kylix may mean: Kylix (drinking cup), a type of drinking cup used in ancient Greece Kylix (software), a programming tool
King Kong 1933 film: King Kong is a 1933 American film co-directed by Merian C. Cooper and Ernest B. Schoedsack, and written by Ruth Rose and James Ashmore Creelman after a story by Cooper and Edgar Wallace. The film tells of a gigantic island-dwelling gorilla-like creature called Kong who dies in an attempt to possess a beautiful young woman. The film stars Fay Wray, Robert Armstrong and Bruce Cabot, and opened in New York City's Radio City Music Hall on March 2, 1933 to good reviews.
Korean War: The Korean War was a military conflict between the Republic of Korea, supported by the United Nations, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, supported by the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union. The war began on 25 June 1950 and an armistice was signed on 27 July 1953. The war was a result of the political division of Korea by agreement of the victorious Allies at the conclusion of the Pacific War.
Carl Friedrich Abel: Carl Friedrich Abel (22 December 1723 - 20 June 1787) was a German composer of the Classical era. (The Chambers Biographical Dictionary gives his year of birth as 1725. ) He was a fine player of the viola da gamba, and composed important music for that instrument.
Kenning: A kenning is a circumlocution used instead of an ordinary noun in Old Norse and later Icelandic poetry. For example, Old Norse poets might replace sver, the regular word for sword, with a compound such as wound-hoe, or a genitive phrase such as randa ss ice of shields. The term kenning has been applied by modern scholars to similar figures of speech in other languages too, especially Old English.
Kult: Kult is a contemporary fantasy horror role-playing game originally designed by Gunilla Jonsson and Michael Peters, first published in Sweden by Target Games in 1991. The first English edition was published in 1993 by Metropolis Ltd. , a now defunct American publisher. The game is no longer published in either language, though copies can be purchased through secondary and specialized markets. Kult is notable for its philosophical and religious depth as well as for its mature content.
Ku Klux Klan: Ku Klux Klan, often abbreviated KKK and informally known as The Klan, is the name of several past and present far right hate groups in the United States whose avowed purpose is to protect the rights and further the interests of White Americans of Protestant faith by violence and intimidation. The first such organizations originated in the Southern states and eventually grew to national scope. They developed iconic white costumes consisting of robes, masks, and conical hats.
Klondike Yukon: The Klondike or Clondike is a region of the Yukon in northwest Canada, east of the Alaska border. It lies around the Klondike River, a small river that enters the Yukon River from the east at Dawson. The Klondike is famed because of the Klondike Gold Rush, which started in 1896 and ended the following year. Gold has been mined continuously in that area except for a hiatus in the late 1960s and early 1970s.
Kista: Kista is a district of Stockholm Municipality in Sweden. Located northwest of central Stockholm, Kista is divided by the Stockholm Metro blue line into a western part which is primarily residential, and an eastern part occupied by commercial ventures, mostly in the telecommunication and IT industry. Kista hosts departments of both Royal Institute of Technology and Stockholm University (formerly jointly known as "the IT University").
Korean cuisine: Korean cuisine as a national cuisine known today has evolved through centuries of social and political change. Its roots can be traced back to myths and legends of antiquity. Originating from ancient agricultural and nomadic traditions in southern Manchuria and northern Korean peninsula, Korean cuisine has evolved through a complex interaction of the natural environment and different cultural trends. Ingredients and dishes vary by province.
Kilobyte: The kilobyte is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information storage or transmission. The prefix kilo means 1000 in the International System of Units (SI), therefore 1 kilobyte is 1000bytes. The recommended unit symbol for the kilobyte is kB or kbyte. Historically the unit has also been used to denote 1024 (2) bytes in many fields of computer science and information technology, because digital system are based on multiples of powers of 2.
Karl Andree: Karl Andree (20 October 1808 - 10 August 1875) was a German geographer. Andree was born in Brunswick. He was educated at Jena, Gtingen, and Berlin. After having been implicated in a students' political agitation he became a journalist, and in 1851 founded the newspaper Bremer Handelsblatt. From 1855, however, he devoted himself entirely to geography and ethnography, working successively at Leipzig and at Dresden. In 1862 he founded the important geographical periodical Globus.
Kalmar Union: The Kalmar Union is a historiographical term meaning a series of personal unions (1397-1523) that united the three kingdoms of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden (including some of Finland) under a single monarch, though intermittently and with a population less than 3,000,000.
Kuiper belt: The Kuiper belt (rhyming with "viper"), sometimes called the Edgeworth-Kuiper belt, is a region of the Solar System beyond the planets extending from the orbit of Neptune to approximately 55 AU from the Sun. It is similar to the asteroid belt, although it is far larger20 times as wide and 20-200 times as massive. Like the asteroid belt, it consists mainly of small bodies, or remnants from the Solar System's formation.
Krav Maga: Krav Maga (lit. "contact combat" or "close combat") is an eclectic hand-to-hand combat system developed in Israel which involves wrestling, grappling and striking techniques. It was derived from street-fighting skills developed by Imi Lichtenfeld, who made use of his training as a boxer and wrestler, as a means of defending the Jewish quarter during a period of anti-Semitic activity in Bratislava in the mid- to late 1930s.
The Katzenjammer Kids: The Katzenjammer Kids is an American comic strip created by the German immigrant Rudolph Dirks and drawn by Harold H. Knerr for 37 years (1912 to 1949). It debuted December 12, 1897 in the American Humorist, the Sunday supplement of William Randolph Hearst's New York Journal. After a series of legal battles between 1912 and 1914, Dirks left the Hearst organization and began a new strip, first titled Hans und Fritz and then The Captain and the Kids.
Ketone: In organic chemistry, a ketone is a type of compound that features one carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms, i.e. , R3CCO-CR3 where R can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. With carbonyl carbon bonded to two carbon atoms, ketones are distinct from many other functional groups, such as carboxylic acids, aldehydes, esters, amides, and other oxygen-containing compounds. The double-bond of the carbonyl group distinguishes ketones from alcohols and ethers.
Kraftwerk: Kraftwerk is a pioneering and a highly influential electronic music band from Dsseldorf, Germany. The signature Kraftwerk sound combines driving, repetitive rhythms with catchy melodies, mainly following a Western classical style of harmony, with a minimalistic and strictly electronic instrumentation. The group's simplified lyrics are at times sung through a vocoder or generated by computer-speech software. Kraftwerk were one of the first groups to popularize electronic music.
Kistvaen: A kistvaen or cistvaen is a tomb or burial chamber formed from flat stone slabs in a box-like shape. If set completely underground, it may be covered by a tumulus. The word is derived from the Welsh cist (chest) and maen (stone). The term originated in relation to Celtic structures, typically pre-Christian, but in antiquarian scholarship of the 19th and early 20th centuries it was sometimes applied to similar structures outside the Celtic world.
Ketene: A ketene is an organic compound of the form R'R''C=C=O where R',R'' are arbitrary radicals. The term is also used specifically to mean ethenone, the simplest ketene, where R' and R'' are hydrogens. Ketenes were first studied as a class by Hermann Staudinger.
Kim Stanley Robinson: Kim Stanley Robinson (born March 23, 1952) is an American science fiction writer known for his award-winning Mars trilogy. His work delves into ecological and sociological themes regularly, and many of his novels appear to be the direct result of his own scientific fascinations, such as the fifteen years of research and lifelong fascination with the planet Mars. Robinson's work has been labeled by reviewers as literary science fiction. Robinson was an instructor at the Clarion Workshop in 2009.
Kenesaw Mountain Landis: Kenesaw Mountain Landis (November 20, 1866-November 25, 1944) was an American jurist who served as a federal judge from 1905 to 1922, and subsequently as the first commissioner of organized baseball, including both the American and National leagues and the governing body of minor league baseball, the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues from 1920 until his death.
Kepler Poinsot polyhedron: In geometry, a Kepler-Poinsot polyhedron is any of four regular star polyhedra. They may be obtained by stellating the regular convex dodecahedron and icosahedron, and differ from these in having regular pentagrammic faces or vertex figures.
Konrad Zuse: Konrad Zuse was a German engineer and computer pioneer who collaborated with the German government during World War 2, which helped finance his projects. His greatest achievement was the world's first functional program-controlled Turing-complete computer, the Z3, in 1941 (the program was stored on a punched tape). He received the Werner-von-Siemens-Ring in 1964 for the Z3.
King Arthur: King Arthur is a legendary British leader who, according to medieval histories and romances, led the defence of Britain against Saxon invaders in the early sixth century. The details of Arthur's story are mainly composed of folklore and literary invention, and his historical existence is debated and disputed by modern historians. The sparse historical background of Arthur is gleaned from various sources, including the Annales Cambriae, the Historia Brittonum, and the writings of Gildas.
Kora instrument: The kora is a 21-string harp-lute used extensively by peoples in West Africa.
Kathleen Kenyon: Dame Kathleen Mary Kenyon (5 January 1906 - 24 August 1978), was a leading archaeologist of Neolithic culture in the Fertile Crescent. She is best known for her excavations in Jericho in 1952-1958.
Kallikrates: Kallikrates (also spelled Callicrates) was an ancient Greek architect active in the middle of the fifth century BCE. He and Iktinos were architects of the Parthenon . An inscription identifies him as the architect of "the Temple of Nike" in the Sanctuary of Athena Nike on the Acropolis (IG I 35). The temple in question is either the amphiprostyle Temple of Athena Nike now visible on the site or a small-scale predecessor (naiskos) whose remains were found in the later temple's foundations..
Krak w: Krak, also spelled Krakow or Cracow, is the 2nd largest and one of the oldest cities in Poland and a popular tourist destination. Its historic center was inscribed on the list of World Heritage Sites as the first of its kind. Situated on the Vistula river in the Lesser Poland region, the city dates back to the 7th century. Krak has traditionally been one of the leading centers of Polish academic, cultural and artistic life, and is one of Poland's most important economic centers.
Korfball: Korfball is a mixed gender team ball game, similar to mixed netball and basketball. It is played in 57 countries. The sport is very popular amongst others in the Netherlands, Belgium, and Taiwan. A team consists of four men and four women.
Kingdom of Jerusalem: This article is about the Christian kingdom. For the history of the city, see History of Jerusalem The Kingdom of Jerusalem was a Christian kingdom established in the Levant in 1099 after the First Crusade. It lasted nearly two hundred years, from 1099 until 1291 when the last remaining possession, Acre, was destroyed by the Mamluks. At first the kingdom was little more than a loose collection of towns and cities captured during the crusade.
Kevin Bacon: Kevin Norwood Bacon (born July 8, 1958) is an American film and theater actor whose notable roles include Animal House, Footloose, Flatliners, A Few Good Men, Apollo 13, Mystic River, The Woodsman, Friday the 13th, Hollow Man, and Tremors. He won a Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Award for his role as Lt. Col. Michael Strobl in Taking Chance and has been called one of the best actors never to have received an Academy Award nomination.
Keyboard technology: There are many types of keyboards, usually differentiated by the switch technology employed in their operation. Since there are so many switches needed (usually about 80-110) and because they have to be highly reliable, this usually defines the keyboard. The choice of switch technology affects key response (the positive feedback that a key has been pressed) and travel (the distance needed to push the key to enter a character reliably).
Kick: In martial arts, combat sports, and violence, a kick is a strike using the foot, leg, or knee (the latter is also known as a knee strike). This attack is often used in hand-to-hand combat, especially in stand-up fighting. Kicks play a great part in many martial arts, such as Taekwondo, Kung fu, Wushu, Karate, Kickboxing, Muay Thai, Puroresu, Capoeira, Silat, Sanshou, Vovinam, Kalarippayattu, and Savate. Some arts do not utilize kicks at all, such as judo and boxing.
Kabul: Kabul, is the capital and largest city of Afghanistan, located in Kabul Province. According to a 2009 census, it has a population of 3,568,500. It is an economic and cultural centre, situated 5,900 ft (1,800 m) above sea level in a narrow valley, wedged between the Hindu Kush mountains along the Kabul River. The city is linked with Ghazni, Kandahar, Herat and Mazar-e Sharif via a circular highway that stretches across the country.
Kilo-: Kilo- is a unit prefix in the metric system denoting one thousand. For example: one kilogram is 1000 grams one kilometre is 1000 metres one kilojoule is 1000 joules one kilobaud is a rate of transfer used primarily in telecommunications one kilobyte is equal to either 1000 bytes or, according to traditional use in some fields of computer science, 1024 (2) bytes. The latter meaning is most often used when discussing computer memory and storage sizes.
Khalid al-Mihdhar: Khalid al-Mihdhar (May 16, 1975 - September 11, 2001) was one of five hijackers of American Airlines Flight 77, which was flown into the Pentagon as part of a coordinated suicide attack on September 11, 2001. Mihdhar was born in Saudi Arabia and fought in the Bosnian War during the 1990s. In early 1999, he traveled to Afghanistan where, as an experienced and respected jihadist, he was selected by Osama bin Laden to participate in the 9/11 attacks plot.
Kofi Annan: Kofi Atta Annan (born 8 April 1938) is a Ghanaian diplomat who served as the seventh Secretary-General of the United Nations from 1 January 1997 to 31 December 2006. Annan and the United Nations were the co-recipients of the 2001 Nobel Peace Prize.
Kvikkalkul: Kvikkalkul is an esoteric programming language ostensibly developed by the Swedish Navy in the 1950s and used on the SABINA computer. It came to fame in 1994 when someone made an anonymous post to USENET regarding it. Kvikkalkul's origins are probably not as claimed, but instead it was likely invented as a joke, like INTERCAL. Unlike INTERCAL, it is not overtly humorous, and contains nothing terribly silly.
Utamaro: Kitagawa Utamaro ( , ca. 1753 - October 31, 1806) was a Japanese printmaker and painter, who is considered one of the greatest artists of woodblock prints. His name was romanized archaically as Outamaro. He is known especially for his masterfully composed studies of women, known as bijinga. He also produced nature studies, particularly illustrated books of insects. His work reached Europe in the mid-nineteenth century, where it was very popular, enjoying particular acclaim in France.
Kurtosis: In probability theory and statistics, kurtosis (from the Greek word , kyrtos or kurtos, meaning bulging) is a measure of the "peakedness" of the probability distribution of a real-valued random variable. Higher kurtosis means more of the variance is the result of infrequent extreme deviations, as opposed to frequent modestly sized deviations.
Kon Ichikawa: Kon Ichikawa ( , Ichikawa Kon, November 20, 1915 - February 13, 2008) was a Japanese film director.
Kentucky: The Commonwealth of Kentucky is a state located in the East Central United States of America. As classified by the United States Census Bureau, Kentucky is a Southern state. Kentucky is one of four U.S. states constituted as a commonwealth. Originally a part of Virginia, in 1792 it became the 15th state to join the Union. Kentucky is the 37th largest state in terms of total area, the 36th largest in land area, and ranks 26th in population.
Karel van het Reve: Karel van het Reve (19 May 1921 - 4 March 1999) was a Dutch writer, translator and literary historian, teaching and writing on Russian literature. He was born in Amsterdam and was raised as a communist. He lost his 'faith' in his twenties and became an active critic and opponent of the Soviet regime. With his help, work of dissident Andrei Sakharov was smuggled to the west, and his Alexander Herzen Foundation published dissident Soviet literature.
Katakana: Katakana is a Japanese syllabary, one component of the Japanese writing system along with hiragana, kanji, and in some cases the Latin alphabet. The word katakana means "fragmentary kana", as the katakana scripts are derived from components of more complex kanji. Katakana are characterized by short, straight strokes and angular corners, and are the simplest of the Japanese scripts.
Kit b-i-Aqdas: The Kit-i-Aqdas is a central book of the Bah' Faith written by Bah'u'll, the founder of the religion. The work was written in Arabic under the Arabic title al-Kitbu'l-Aqdasu, but it is commonly referred to by its Persian title, Kit-i-Aqdas, which was given to the work by Bah'u'll himself. It is sometimes also referred to as "the Aqdas", "the Most Holy Book", "the Book of Laws" and occasionally "the Book of Aqdas".
Kia Asamiya: Kia Asamiya is the pen-name of a popular Japanese manga artist Michitaka Kikuchi whose work spans multiple genres and appeals to diverse audiences. He is well-known for using influences from American comics, television, and movies in his work, and describes himself as a big fan of both Batman and Star Wars. One of the most widely-published Japanese mangaka, nearly all of his stories have been translated into other languages, including English.
Kansas State University: Kansas State University, which is commonly shortened to K-State, is an institution of higher learning located in Manhattan, Kansas, in the United States. The university has an official spring enrollment of 21,570 students for the 2009-2010 school year. A branch campus is located in Salina, Kansas, housing the College of Technology and Aviation. Another branch campus, known as the Olathe Innovation Campus, is presently under construction in Olathe, Kansas.
Kansas City Wizards: The Kansas City Wizards are an American, professional soccer club based in Kansas City, Kansas that participates in Major League Soccer. In 2007 the team moved from Kansas City, Missouri to Kansas City, Kansas with plans to build a new stadium in the Missouri city; however, they ultimately decided to build the new stadium in "KCK" near the Kansas Speedway. The Wizards won the MLS Cup in 2000, the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup in 2004, and the MLS Supporters Shield in 2000.
Knights of Columbus: The Knights of Columbus is the world's largest Catholic fraternal service organization. Founded in the United States in 1882, it is named in honor of Christopher Columbus. There are more than 1.8 million members in 14,000 councils, with nearly 200 councils on college campuses. Membership is limited to "practical Catholic" men aged 18 or older.
Kuala Lumpur: Kuala Lumpur (and often abbreviated as K.L. is the capital and largest city of Malaysia. The city proper, making up an area of 244 km, has an estimated population of 1.6 million in 2006. Greater Kuala Lumpur, also known as the Klang Valley, is an urban agglomeration of 7.2 million. It is the fastest growing metropolitan region in the country, in terms of population as well as economy. Kuala Lumpur is the seat of the Parliament of Malaysia.
Japanese sword: A Japanese sword, or nihont ( or , lit. Japanese sword), is one of the traditional bladed weapons of Japan. There are several types of Japanese sword, according to size, field of application and method of manufacture. The most commonly known type of Japanese sword is the katana, which, like the similarly formed tachi, is a single-edged and, usually, curved long sword which was traditionally worn by samurai from the 1400s onwards.
Kurt Vonnegut: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. (November 11, 1922 - April 11, 2007) was an American novelist who wrote works blending satire, black comedy, and science fiction, such as Slaughterhouse-Five (1969), Cat's Cradle (1963), and Breakfast of Champions (1973). He was known for his humanist beliefs as well as being honorary president of the American Humanist Association. He is widely considered one of the most influential American writers of the 20th century.
K an: A kan is a fundamental part of the history and lore of Zen Buddhism. It consists of a story, dialogue, question, or statement; the meaning of which cannot be understood by rational thinking, yet it may be accessible by intuition. One widely known kan is "Two hands clap and there is a sound; what is the sound of one hand?" (oral tradition attributed to Hakuin Ekaku, 1686-1769, considered a reviver of the kan tradition in Japan).
Knights Templar: The Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon, commonly known as the Knights Templar or the Order of the Temple, were among the most famous of the Western Christian military orders. The organization existed for approximately two centuries in the Middle Ages. Officially endorsed by the Roman Catholic Church around 1129, the Order became a favoured charity throughout Christendom, and grew rapidly in membership and power.
Kazaa: Kazaa Media Desktop (once capitalized as "KaZaA", but now usually written "Kazaa") started as a peer-to-peer file sharing application using the FastTrack protocol licensed by Joltid Ltd. and operated as Kazaa by Sharman Networks. Kazaa is now run under license as music subscription service by Brilliant Digital Entertainment, Inc. Kazaa Media Desktop was commonly used to exchange MP3 music files and other file types, such as videos, applications, and documents over the internet.
Ken Loach: Kenneth Loach (born 17 June 1936) is an English film and television director. He is known for his naturalistic, social realist directing style and for his socialist beliefs, which are evident in his film treatment of social issues such as homelessness and labour rights.
Kimono: The kimono is a Japanese traditional garment worn by women, men and children. The word "kimono", which literally means a "thing to wear" (ki "wear" and mono "thing"), has come to denote these full-length robes. The standard plural of the word kimono in English is kimonos, but the unmarked Japanese plural kimono is also sometimes used. Kimonos are T-shaped, straight-lined robes worn so that the hem falls to the ankle, with attached collars and long, wide sleeves.
Kingston upon Thames: Kingston upon Thames is the principal settlement of the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames in south-west London. It was the ancient market town where Saxon kings were crowned and is now a suburb situated 10 miles (16.1 km) south west of Charing Cross. It is one of the major metropolitan centres identified in the London Plan.
Karma: Karma in Indian religions is the concept of "action" or "deed", understood as that which causes the entire cycle of cause and effect (i.e. , the cycle called sasra) originating in ancient India and treated in Hindu, Jain, Sikh and Buddhist philosophies. 'Karma' is an Eastern religious concept in contradistinction to 'faith' espoused by Abrahamic religions, which view all human dramas as the will of God as opposed to present - and past - life actions.
KLM: KLM Royal Dutch Airlines is the national airline of the Netherlands and is part of Air France-KLM. KLM's headquarters are in Amstelveen near its hub at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol. KLM operates worldwide scheduled passenger and cargo services to more than 90 destinations. It is the oldest airline in the world still operating under its original name. It has 33,000 employees (as of March 2007).
Kashrut: Kashrut (also kashruth or kashrus, ) is the set of Jewish dietary laws. Food in accord with halakha (Jewish law) is termed kosher in English, from the Ashkenazi pronunciation of the Hebrew term kash (), meaning "fit" (in this context, fit for consumption by Jews according to traditional Jewish law). Food that is not in accordance with Jewish law is called treif .
Kosher disambiguation: Kosher most commonly refers to Kashrut (Jewish dietary laws).
Kansas City Royals: The Kansas City Royals are a Major League Baseball team based in Kansas City, Missouri. The Royals are a member of the Central Division of Major League Baseball's American League. From 1973 to the present, the Royals have played in Kauffman Stadium. The Royals have participated in two World Series, winning in 1985. The "Royals" name originates from the American Royal, a livestock show, horse show, and rodeo held annually in Kansas City since 1899.
Klingon language: The Klingon language (tlhIngan Hol in Klingon) is the constructed language spoken by the fictional Klingons in the Star Trek universe. Deliberately designed by Marc Okrand to be "alien", it has a number of typologically uncommon features. The language's basic sound, along with a few words, was first devised by actor James Doohan for '. That film marked the first time the language had been heard on screen; in all previous appearances, Klingons spoke in English.
Karnataka: Karnataka is a state in the southern part of India. It was created on November 1, 1956, with the passing of the States Reorganisation Act. Originally known as the State of Mysore, it was renamed Karnataka in 1973. Karnataka is bordered by the Arabian Sea to the west, Goa to the northwest, Maharashtra to the north, Andhra Pradesh to the east, Tamil Nadu to the southeast, and Kerala to the southwest.
Kansas City disambiguation: Kansas City may refer to: Kansas City, Missouri, the largest city in Missouri and anchor city of the Kansas City Metropolitan Area Kansas City, Kansas, third-largest city in the Kansas City metropolitan area Kansas City Metropolitan Area, metropolitan area surrounding Kansas City, Missouri that includes territory in both Missouri and Kansas Kansas City (1996 film), by Robert Altman "Kansas City" (song)
Kid Icarus: Kid Icarus is a platforming video game developed by Nintendo R&D1 and published by Nintendo for the Family Computer Disk System in 1986 and the Nintendo Entertainment System in 1987. It is the first game in the Kid Icarus series, the second being '. The game world is loosely based on Greek mythology, with Icarus and Medusa being drawn from myth.
Knight: A knight was a "gentleman soldier" or member of the warrior class of the Middle Ages in Europe. In other Indo-European languages, cognates of cavalier or rider are more prevalent suggesting a connection to the knight's mode of transport. Since antiquity a position of honour and prestige has been held by mounted warriors such as the Greek hippeus and the Roman eques, and knighthood in the Middle Ages was inextricably linked with horsemanship.
Kylie Minogue: Kylie Ann Minogue, OBE (born 28 May 1968) is an Australian pop singer, songwriter, and actress. After beginning her career as a child actress on Australian television, she achieved recognition through her role in the television soap opera Neighbours, before commencing her career as a recording artist in 1987. Her first single, "Locomotion", spent seven weeks at number one on the Australian singles chart and became the highest selling single of the decade.
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (born Ferdinand Lewis Alcindor; April 16, 1947) is an American retired basketball player, coach, actor and author. During his 20-year professional career in the NBA, from 1969 to 1989, he scored the highest points total of any player in league history (38,387), in addition to winning a record six Most Valuable Player Awards and six NBA championships.
Kara Sea: The Kara Sea is part of the Arctic Ocean north of Siberia. It is separated from the Barents Sea to the west by the Kara Strait and Novaya Zemlya, and the Laptev Sea to the east by the Severnaya Zemlya. The Kara Sea's Northern limit is marked geographically by a line running from Cape Kohlsaat in Graham Bell Island, Franz Josef Land, to Cape Molotov (Arctic Cape), the northernmost point of Komsomolets Island in Severnaya Zemlya.
KMT disambiguation: KMT usually stands for Kuomintang, the founding and ruling political party of the Republic of China. KMT or kmt may also refer to: Kmt or km. t, the hieroglyphic representation of Kemet, the ancient Egyptian name of Egypt Kmt (journal), modern journal of ancient Egypt Kinetic theory, also referred to as Kinetic Molecular Theory Kilometerton, abbreviated kmt, unit of measure
Kabbalah: Kabbalah is a discipline and school of thought concerned with the mystical aspect of Judaism. It is a set of esoteric teachings meant to explain the relationship between an eternal/mysterious Creator and the mortal/finite universe (His creation). Kabbalah seeks to define the nature of the universe and the human being, the nature and purpose of existence, and various other ontological questions.
Kung fu term: This article is specifically about the term "kung fu". The martial arts often called Kung Fu are in fact synonymous with "Chinese martial arts"; for information about this, see Chinese martial arts. For other uses, see Kung fu. Kung fu or gongfu or gung fu is a Chinese term often used by speakers of the English language to refer to Chinese martial arts. Its original meaning is somewhat different, referring to one's expertise in any skill, not necessarily martial.
Kuomintang: The Kuomintang of China, translated as the Chinese Nationalist Party, is a political party of the Republic of China (ROC), commonly known internationally as Taiwan since the 1970s. It is the founding and the ruling political party of the ROC. The headquarters of the KMT is located in Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China, and it is currently the majority party in terms of seats in the Legislative Yuan, and the oldest political party in the Republic of China.
Kaang: Kaang is the creator god of the Bushmen of southern Africa and is said to have made all things. He is regarded as the god of natural phenomena, present in all things, but especially the mantis and caterpillar.
Kadiogo Province: Kadiogo is a province of Burkina Faso, located in its Centre Region. Its area is of 2,805 km, containing six departments and a population of around 1,409,000 (2004). Its capital is also the State capital, Ouagadougou. It features the central plateau of the country. It is highly urbanized and is the most densely populated province.
Kagoshima: Kagoshima is the capital city of Kagoshima Prefecture at the southwestern tip of the Kysh island of Japan, and the largest city in the prefecture by some margin. It has been nicknamed the "Naples of the Eastern world" for its bay location, hot climate and impressive stratovolcano, Sakurajima. As of 1 January 2010, the city had an estimated population of 605,855 and a density of 1,107.49 persons per km. The total area is 546.71 km.
Karl Benz: Karl Friedrich Benz, sometimes spelled as Carl, (November 25, 1844, Karlsruhe, - April 4, 1929, Ladenburg, Germany) was a German engine designer and automobile engineer, generally regarded as the inventor of the gasoline-powered automobile and pioneering founder of the automobile manufacturer, Mercedes-Benz.
Kapok: Kapok (Ceiba pentandra) is a tropical tree of the order Malvales and the family Malvaceae (previously separated in the family Bombacaceae), native to Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean, northern South America, and (as the variety C. pentandra var. guineensis) to tropical west Africa. The word is also used for the fibre obtained from its seed pods. The tree is also known as the Java cotton, Java kapok, or ceiba. It is a sacred symbol in Maya mythology.
Kajang: Kajang, is a city in the eastern part of Selangor, Malaysia. Kajang is the district capital of Hulu Langat. It is located 21 kilometers (13 mi) from of Malaysia's capital, Kuala Lumpur. The current locational gravity of growth in Kajang would be Sungai Chua. The total population of Kajang has grown rapidly in the past few years, with estimated population growth of 9% per annum.
KAB-500KR: The KAB-500KR is an electro-optical TV-guided fire and forget bomb developed by the Soviet Air Force in the 1980s. It remains in service with the CIS and various export customers. The KAB-500KR is analogous to the American GBU-15 weapon. It uses a standard Soviet/Russian FAB-500 general-purpose bomb, with a nominal weight of 500 kg (1,102 lb), as a warhead, adding a low-light television seeker and guidance fins to turn it into a guided, unpowered glide bomb.
KAB-500L: The KAB-500L is a laser-guided bomb developed by the Soviet Air Force. It remains in service with the CIS and post-Soviet Russian Air Force. The KAB-500L is analogous to the U.S. Paveway series: it is a standard FAB-500 general-purpose bomb, which has a nominal weight of 500 kg (1,102 lb), fitted with a semi-active laser seeker and guidance fins, turning it into a guided, unpowered glide bomb. The KAB-500L is 3.05 m (10 ft) long and weighs 525 kg (1,155 lb).
Ky sh: Kysh or Kyushu is the third largest island of Japan and most southwesterly of its four main islands. Its alternate ancient names include Kykoku ( Nine States), Chinzei ( West of the Pacified Area), and Tsukushi-no-shima ( Island of Tsukushi). The historical regional name Saikaid ( West Sea Circuit) referred to Kysh and its surrounding islands. Kysh has a population of 13,231,995 (2006) and covers 35,640 square kilometres (13,760 sq mi).
Kamov Ka-50: The Kamov Ka-50 "Black Shark" is a single-seat Russian attack helicopter with the distinctive coaxial rotor system of the Kamov design bureau. It was designed in the 1980s and adopted for service in the Russian army in 1995. It is currently manufactured by the Progress company in Arsenyev. During the late 1990s, Kamov and Israeli Air Industries developed a tandem-seat cockpit version, the Kamov Ka-50-2 "Erdogan", to compete in Turkey's attack helicopter competition.
Knowledge representation and reasoning: Knowledge representation and reasoning is an area in artificial intelligence that is concerned with how to formally "think", that is, how to use a symbol system to represent "a domain of discourse" - that which can be talked about, along with functions that may or may not be within the domain of discourse that allow inference (formalized reasoning) about the objects within the domain of discourse to occur.
Kenny Dalglish: Kenneth Mathieson "Kenny" Dalglish MBE, is a former Scottish international footballer. He is most noted for his successes with Celtic, and both his playing and managerial career at English club Liverpool. In 2009, he was named by FourFourTwo football magazine as the greatest post-war British striker, and he was placed first in Liverpool's list of "100 Players Who Shook The Kop".
Kabaddi: Kabaddi (sometimes written Kabbadi or Kabadi) is a team sport that originated in South Asia. Two teams occupy opposite halves of a field and take turns sending a "raider" into the other half, in order to win points by tagging or wrestling members of the opposing team; the raider then tries to return to his own half, holding his breath during the whole raid.
Knowledge Aided Retrieval in Activity Context: KARNAC is a system being developed in the United States for use in profiling different categories of terrorist attacks to determine the components of possible future terrorist incidents. Information for KARNAC is generally to be derived from structured, semi-structured and unstructured databases. This would include information derived from gun registrations, driver's licenses, residential and criminal records, as well as the Internet, newspapers and county records.
Kerameikos: Kerameikos is an area of Athens, Greece, located to the northwest of the Acropolis, which includes an extensive area both within and outside the city walls, on both sides of the Dipylon () Gate and by the banks of the Eridanos River. It was the potters' quarter of the city, from which the English word "ceramic" is derived, and was also the site of an important cemetery and numerous funerary sculptures erected along the road out of the city.
Kabir Bedi: Kabir Bedi (born 16 January 1946) is an internationally acclaimed Indian television and film actor. His film and television career has spanned across India, the United States and many European countries. He is noted for his role as Emperor Shah Jahan in '. He is best known in Europe for playing the pirate Sandokan in mini TV series and for his role as Gobinda in the 1983 James Bond film, Octopussy. He is very popular in Italy in particular, and is fluent in Italian.
Kaber: Kaber may refer to: a variant spelling for caber Kaber, Cumbria
Kamov Ka-25: The Kamov Ka-25 was a naval helicopter, developed for the Soviet Navy in the USSR from 1958.
Kainite: Kainite is a mineral salt that consists of potassium chloride and magnesium sulfate and is used as a fertilizer. This mineral is dull and soft, is colored white through yellow to red and is found in the Stassfurt salt mines in Saxony, Germany. It is a natural salt occurring in irregular granular masses, and is used as a source of potassium and magnesium compounds.
KAIST: KAIST (formerly the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology), is located in Daedeok Science Town, Daejeon, South Korea. KAIST was established by Korean government in 1971 as the nation's first research oriented science and engineering institution. KAIST is one of the nation's most prestigious science and technology institutions.
Kabyle: Kabyle refers to the Kabyle people, an ethnic group in Algeria the Kabyle language the Kabyle ethnic homeland, a region called Kabylie in French the Kabile city, an ancient Greek colony
Kawasaki Ki-56: The Kawasaki Ki-56 was a Japanese two-engine light transport aircraft used during World War II. It was known to the Allies as "Thalia". 121 were built between 1940 and 1943. It was derived from the Lockheed Model 14 Super Electra aircraft that the Kawasaki Kokuki Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha (The Kawasaki Aircraft Engineering Company Limited) had built under licence. A number was also built by the Tachikawa company.
Kaolinite: Kaolinite is a clay mineral with the chemical composition Al2Si2O54. It is a layered silicate mineral, with one tetrahedral sheet linked through oxygen atoms to one octahedral sheet of alumina octahedra. Rocks that are rich in kaolinite are known as china clay, white clay, or kaolin. The name is derived from Chinese: / pinyin: Gaoling or Kao-ling ("High Hill") in Jingdezhen, Jiangxi province, China. The English name is derived from the French version of the word: "kaolin.
Kerberos protocol: Kerberos is a computer network authentication protocol, which allows nodes communicating over a non-secure network to prove their identity to one another in a secure manner. It is also a suite of free software published by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) that implements this protocol. Its designers aimed primarily at a client-server model, and it provides mutual authentication - both the user and the server verify each other's identity.
MV Wilhelm Gustloff: The MV Wilhelm Gustloff was a German KdF flagship, during 1937-1945, constructed by the Blohm and Voss shipyards. It sank after being hit by three torpedoes fired by the Soviet submarine S-13 on 30 January 1945 with the loss of life thought to be over 9,000 - the greatest loss of life in a maritime disaster in history. The ship was named after Wilhelm Gustloff, the assassinated German leader of the Swiss Nazi party.
Kickapoo: The Kickapoos are an Algonquian-speaking Native American tribes. According to the Anishinaabeg, the name "Kickapoo" (Giiwigaabaw in the Anishinaabe language and its Kickapoo cognate Kiwikapawa) means "Stands here and there". It referred to the tribe's migratory patterns. The name can also mean "wanderer". This interpretation is contested and generally believed to be a folk etymology.
Ketamine: Ketamine is a drug used in human and veterinary medicine developed by Parke-Davis (today a part of Pfizer) in 1962. Its hydrochloride salt is sold as Ketanest, Ketaset, and Ketalar. Pharmacologically, ketamine is classified as an NMDA receptor antagonist. At high, fully anesthetic level doses, ketamine has also been found to bind to opioid receptors and sigma receptors.
Kathy Acker: Kathy Acker (n Karen Lehmann) (18 April 1947 - 30 November 1997) was an American experimental novelist, punk poet, playwright, essayist, postmodernist and sex-positive feminist writer. She was strongly influenced by the Black Mountain School, William S. Burroughs, David Antin, French critical theory, philosophy, and pornography.
Katyusha rocket launcher: Katyusha multiple rocket launchers are a type of rocket artillery first built and fielded by the Soviet Union in World War II. Compared to other artillery, these multiple rocket launchers deliver a devastating amount of explosives to an area target quickly, but with lower accuracy and requiring a longer time to reload. They are fragile compared to artillery guns, but inexpensive and easy to produce.
Kidneys ureters and bladder x-ray: In medicine, KUB refers to a diagnostic medical imaging technique of the abdomen and stands for Kidneys, Ureters, and Bladder. A KUB is a plain frontal supine radiograph of the abdomen. It is often supplemented by an upright PA view of the chest (to rule out air under the diaphragm or thoracic etiologies presenting as abdominal complaints) and a standing view of the abdomen (to differentiate obstruction from ileus by examining gastrointestinal air/water levels).
Kvass: Kvass or kvas (borrowed in the 16th century from Polish kwas or Russian ), sometimes called in English a bread drink, is a fermented beverage made from black rye or rye bread (which contributes to its light or dark colour). By the content of alcohol resulted from fermentation, it is classified as non-alcoholic: up to 1.2% of alcohol, according to the standard of Russia..
Koh-i-Noor: The Kh-i Nr which means "Mountain of Light" from Persian, also spelled Kohinoor, Koh-e Noor or Koh-i-Nur, is a 105 carat (21.6 g) diamond that was once the largest known diamond in the world. The Kohinoor originated at Kollur, Guntur district in the state of Andhra Pradesh in India. It has belonged to various Hindu, Mughal, Persian, Afghan, Sikh and British rulers who fought bitterly over it at various points in history and seized it as a spoil of war time and again.
Kolmogorov Arnold Moser theorem: The Kolmogorov-Arnold-Moser theorem is a result in dynamical systems about the persistence of quasi-periodic motions under small perturbations. The theorem partly resolves the small-divisor problem that arises in the perturbation theory of classical mechanics. The problem is whether or not a small perturbation of a conservative dynamical system results in a lasting quasiperiodic orbit. The original breakthrough to this problem was given by Andrey Kolmogorov in 1954.
Kam disambiguation: Kam is one of the Five Evils in the teachings of Sikhism. Kam or KAM may also refer to: Kam people, a Nuristani tribe in Afghanistan and Pakistan Kam (rapper) (born 1971) KAM, a British electronics firm who specialise in LED lighting and Radio Microphones.
Knapsack problem: The knapsack problem or rucksack problem is a problem in combinatorial optimization: Given a set of items, each with a weight and a value, determine the number of each item to include in a collection so that the total weight is less than a given limit and the total value is as large as possible. It derives its name from the problem faced by someone who is constrained by a fixed-size knapsack and must fill it with the most useful items.
Kernite: Kernite, also known as rasorite is a hydrated sodium borate hydroxide mineral with formula Na2B4O6(OH)23H2O. It is a colorless to white mineral crystallizing in the monoclinic crystal system typically occurring as prismatic to acicular crystals or granular masses. It is relatively soft with Mohs hardness of 2.5 to 3 and light with a specific gravity of 1.91. It exhibits perfect cleavage and a brittle fracture. Kernite is used to produce borax which can be used in a variety of soaps.
Ketoprofen: Ketoprofen, (RS)2-(3-benzoylphenyl)-propionic acid (chemical formula C16H14O3) is one of the propionic acid class of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with analgesic and antipyretic effects. It acts by inhibiting the body's production of prostaglandin.
KY: KY or Ky may mean: Kilo-years (1,000 years), the number of years in a millennium Kyrgyz language Air S Tom and Prncipe As a place name, KY or Ky may refer to: Cayman Islands .
Kabuki: Kabuki is the highly stylized classical Japanese dance-drama. Kabuki theatre is known for the stylization of its drama and for the elaborate make-up worn by some of its performers. The individual kanji characters, from left to right, mean sing (), dance (), and skill (). Kabuki is therefore sometimes translated as "the art of singing and dancing. " These are, however, ateji characters which do not reflect actual etymology.
Frank Kelly Freas: Frank Kelly Freas (27 August 1922 - 2 January 2005), called the "Dean of Science Fiction Artists," was a science fiction and fantasy artist with a career spanning more than 50 years.
Knock-knock joke: The knock-knock joke is a type of joke, probably the best-known format of the pun, and is a time-honoured "call and answer" exercise. It is a roleplay exercise, with a punster and a recipient of wit.
Kent State University: Kent State University (also known as Kent, Kent State, and KSU) is a public research university located in Kent, Ohio, United States. The university has eight campuses around the northeast Ohio region with the main campus in Kent being the largest. Other campuses are located in Ashtabula, Burton, East Liverpool, New Philadelphia, North Canton, Salem, and Warren, Ohio. The university was established in 1910 as the Kent Normal School as a teacher training school.
Korea Institute for Advanced Study: The Korea Institute for Advanced Study ( KIAS) is an advanced research institute in Korea. It is located on a 30-acre (120,000 m) campus at 207-43 Cheongnyangni 2-dong, Dongdaemun-gu, Seoul, Korea. KIAS was founded in 1996 and currently has three schools: Mathematics, Physics, and Computational Sciences. Its primary aims are to provide researchers in pure mathematics and theoretical physics environment to concentrate on their research without other duties.
Keith Moon: Keith John Moon (23 August 1946 - 7 September 1978) was an English drummer of the rock group The Who. He gained acclaim for his exuberant and innovative drumming style and notoriety for his eccentric and often self destructive behavior, earning him the nickname "Moon the Loon. " Moon joined The Who in 1964. He played on all albums and singles from their debut, 1964's "Zoot Suit", to 1978's Who Are You, which was released three weeks before his death.
Kerosene: Kerosene, sometimes spelled kerosine in scientific and industrial usage, also known as paraffin, is a combustible hydrocarbon liquid. The name is derived from Greek keros. The word Kerosene was registered as a trademark by Abraham Gesner in 1854 and for several years only the North American Gas Light Company and the Downer Company (to which Gesner had granted the right) were allowed to call their lamp oil kerosene. It eventually became a genericized trademark.
Kangol: Kangol is a British clothing company famous for its headwear. Founded in Cleator, Cumbria, England in 1938 by Jaques Spreiregen, Kangol (the K from silk, the ANG from angora, the OL from wool) produced hats for workers, golfers, and especially soldiers. They were the major beret suppliers to the armed forces during World War II, including famously Field Marshal Montgomery. During and after the war, Kangol berets were the height of fashion.
Kundalini: Kundalini literally means coiled. In Indian yoga, a "corporeal energy" - an unconscious, instinctive or libidinal force or Shakti, envisioned either as a goddess or else as a sleeping serpent coiled at the base of the spine, hence a number of English renderings of the term such as 'serpent power'.
Kwashiorkor: Kwashiorkor is an acute form of childhood protein-energy malnutrition characterized by edema, irritability, anorexia, ulcerating dermatoses, and an enlarged liver with fatty infiltrates. The presence of edema caused by poor nutrition defines kwashiorkor. Kwashiorkor was thought to be caused by insufficient protein consumption but with sufficient calorie intake, distinguishing it from marasmus.
Katharometer: A katharometer is a thermal conductivity device for determining one gas in a binary or pseudo-binary mixture. The thermal conductivity of a gas is inversely related to its molecular weight. Hydrogen has approximately six times the conductivity of nitrogen for example.
Kaj Munk: Kaj Harald Leininger Munk (commonly called Kaj Munk) (13 January, 1898 - 4 January, 1944) was a Danish playwright and Lutheran pastor, known for his cultural engagement and his martyrdom during World War II. He is commemorated as a martyr in the Calendar of Saints of the Lutheran Church on August 14 with Maximilian Kolbe. He was born Kaj Harald Leininger Petersen on the island of Lolland, Denmark, and raised by a family named Munk after the death of his parents.
Tettigoniidae: The family Tettigoniidae, known in American English as katydids and in British English as bush-crickets, contains more than 6,400 species. It is part of the suborder Ensifera and the only family in the superfamily Tettigonioidea. They are also known as long-horned grasshoppers, although they are more closely related to crickets than to grasshoppers. Many tettigoniids exhibit mimicry and camouflage, commonly with shapes and colors similar to leaves.
Kohlrabi: Kohlrabi (German Turnip) is a low, stout cultivar of the cabbage that will grow almost anywhere. It has been selected for its swollen, nearly spherical shape. The name comes from the German Kohl ("cabbage") plus Rbe ~ Rabi (Swiss German variant), because the swollen stem resembles the latter. However, the actual "Kohlrbe" exists too and corresponds to the rutabaga in English, which is distinct from the kohlrabi.
Knot: A knot is a method for fastening or securing linear material such as rope by tying or interweaving. It may consist of a length of one or more segments of rope, string, webbing, twine, strap, or even chain interwoven such that the line can bind to itself or to some other objectthe "load". Knots have been the subject of interest for their ancient origins, their common uses, and the area of mathematics known as knot theory.
Kennelly Heaviside layer: The Kennelly-Heaviside layer, named after Arthur Edwin Kennelly and Oliver Heaviside, also known as the E region or simply the Heaviside layer, is a layer of ionised gas occurring between roughly 90-150 km (56-93 mi) above the ground - one of several layers in the Earth's ionosphere. It reflects medium-frequency radio waves, and because of this reflection radio waves can be propagated beyond the horizon. Propagation is affected by time of day.
Kanaris: Kanaris may mean: Constantine Kanaris, Greek admiral and statesman One of five ships (the first constructed in 1835) of the Hellenic Navy named after him
Kinderhook: There are several places named Kinderhook in the United States: Kinderhook, Illinois, a village in Pike County Kinderhook Township, Pike County, Illinois Kinderhook (town), New York, in Columbia County Kinderhook (village), New York Kinderhook Township, Michigan, in Branch County
Killer whale: The killer whale (Orcinus orca), commonly referred to as the orca - and, less commonly, blackfish - is the largest species of the oceanic dolphin family. They are found in all of the world's oceans, from the frigid Arctic and Antarctic regions to tropical seas. Killer whales as a species have a diverse diet, although populations often specialize in particular types of prey.
Kim Philby: Harold Adrian Russell "Kim" Philby or H.A.R. Philby, (1 January 1912 - 11 May 1988) was a high-ranking member of British intelligence who worked as a spy for and later defected to the Soviet Union. A communist, he served as an NKVD and KGB operative. In 1963, Philby was revealed as a member of the spy ring now known as the Cambridge Five, along with Donald Maclean, Guy Burgess, Anthony Blunt and John Cairncross.
Kamacite: Kamacite is a mineral. It is an alloy of iron and nickel, usually in the proportions of 90:10 to 95:5 although impurities such as cobalt or carbon may be present. On the surface of Earth, it occurs naturally only in meteorites. It has a metallic lustre, is grey and has no clear cleavage although the structure is isometric-hexoctahedral. Its density is around 8 g/cm and its hardness is 4 on the Mohs scale. It is also sometimes called balkeneisen.
Karst topography: Karst topography is a landscape shaped by the dissolution of a layer or layers of soluble bedrock, usually carbonate rock such as limestone or dolomite. Due to subterranean drainage, there may be very limited surface water, even to the absence of all rivers and lakes. Many karst regions display distinctive surface features, with sinkholes or dolines being the most common.
Kellogg Briand Pact: The Kellogg-Briand Pact (also called the Pact of Paris) was a multinational treaty that prohibited the use of war as "an instrument of national policy. " In its original form, the Pact of Paris was a renunciation of war between only France and the United States of America. However, Frank B. Kellogg, then U.S. Secretary of State, wanted to retain American freedom of action; he thus responded with a proposal for a multilateral pact against war open for all nations to become signatories.
Kashubians: Kashubians/Kaszubians, also called Kashubs, Kaszubians, Kassubians or Cassubians, are a West Slavic ethnic group in Pomerelia, north-central Poland. Their settlement area is referred to as Kashubia. They speak Kashubian, classified either as a language or a Polish dialect. In analogy to the linguistic classification, Kashubians are considered either an ethnic or a linguistic group.
Kern: Kern may refer to: Kern (typography), a part of a type letter that overhangs the edge of the type block Kern (soldier), a light infantry unit in Medieval Irish armies Kern, California, a former unincorporated community in Kern County, California Kern County, California, a county in the southern Central Valley of the U.S.
Kaohsiung: Kaohsiung is a city located in southwestern Taiwan. It is enclosed by Kaohsiung County, and faces the Taiwan Strait on the west. Kaohsiung, officially named Kaohsiung City, is divided into eleven districts. The city is one of two special municipalities under administration of the Republic of China, which grants it the same status as a province. By the end of 2010 the city will be merged with Kaohsiung County to form a larger municipality.
Kidney: The kidneys are paired organs with several functions. They are seen in many types of animals, including vertebrates and some invertebrates. They are an essential part of the urinary system and also serve homeostatic functions such as the regulation of electrolytes, maintenance of acid-base balance, and regulation of blood pressure. In producing urine, the kidneys excrete wastes such as urea and ammonium; the kidneys also are responsible for the reabsorption of water, glucose, and amino acids.
Kermit the Frog: Kermit The Frog is puppeteer Jim Henson's most famous Muppet creation, first introduced in 1955. He is the main protagonist of many Muppet projects. Kermit was performed by Henson until his death in 1990. Since then Kermit has been performed by Steve Whitmire. He was voiced by Frank Welker in Muppet Babies and occasionally in animation.
Protea cynaroides: The King Protea (Protea cynaroides) is a flowering plant. It is a distinctive Protea, having the largest flower head in the genus. The species is also known as Giant Protea, Honeypot or King Sugar Bush. It is widely distributed in the southwestern and southern parts of South Africa of the fynbos region. The King Protea is the National Flower of South Africa. It also is the flagship of the The Protea Atlas Project, run by the South African National Botanical Institute.
KHAD: Khadamat-e Etela'at-e Dawlati (Persian ' '), almost always known by its acronym KHAD (or KhAD), is the main security agency and intelligence agency of Afghanistan, and also served as the secret police during the Soviet occupation. Successor to AGSA (Department for Safeguarding the Interests of Afghanistan) and KAM, KHAD was nominally part of the Afghan state, but it was firmly under the control of the Soviet KGB until 1989.
Kantele: A kantele or kannel is a traditional plucked string instrument of the zither family native to Finland, Estonia, and Karelia. It is related to the Russian gusli, the Latvian kokle and the Lithuanian kankls. Together these instruments make up the family known as Baltic psalteries. The oldest forms of kantele have 5 or 6 horsehair strings and a wooden body carved from one piece; more modern instruments have metal strings and often a body made from several pieces.
Kermit protocol: Kermit is a computer file transfer/management protocol and a set of communications software tools primarily used in the early years of personal computing in the 1980s; it provides a consistent approach to file transfer, terminal emulation, script programming, and character set conversion across many different computer hardware and OS platforms.
Kansas Nebraska Act: In the United States (U.S. ) during the pre-Civil War era, the Kansas-Nebraska Act of 1854 created the territories of Kansas and Nebraska, opened new lands, repealed the Missouri Compromise of 1820 and allowed settlers in those territories to determine if they would allow slavery within their boundaries. The initial purpose of the Kansas-Nebraska Act was to create opportunities for a Mideastern Transcontinental Railroad.
Kaleidoscope: A kaleidoscope is a tube of mirrors containing loose coloured beads, pebbles, or other small coloured objects. The viewer looks in one end and light enters the other end, reflecting off the mirrors. Typically there are two rectangular lengthwise mirrors. Setting of the mirrors at 45 creates 8 duplicate images of the objects, 6 at 60, and 4 at 90. As the tube is rotated, the tumbling of the coloured objects presents the viewer with varying colours and patterns.
Kyanite: Kyanite, whose name derives from the Greek word kuanos sometimes referred to as "kyanos", meaning deep blue, is a typically blue silicate mineral, commonly found in aluminium-rich metamorphic pegmatites and/or sedimentary rock. Kyanite in metamorphic rocks generally indicates pressures higher than 4 kilobars.
Kumquat: The kumquats or cumquats are a family of small fruit-bearing trees in the flowering plant family Rutaceae, in the genus Fortunella which is often included in the genus Citrus. The edible fruit closely resembles that of the orange (Citrus sinensis), but is smaller and is often oval. They are slow-growing evergreen shrubs or short trees, from 2.5 to 4.5 metres (8 to 15 ft) tall, with sparse branches, sometimes bearing small thorns.
Kalmia latifolia: Kalmia latifolia, commonly called Mountain-laurel or Spoonwood, is a species flowering plant in the blueberry family, Ericaceae, that is native to the eastern United States. Its range stretches from southern Maine south to northern Florida, and west to Indiana and Louisiana. Mountain-laurel is the state flower of Connecticut and Pennsylvania. It is the namesake of the city of Laurel, Mississippi (founded 1882).
Common Kestrel: The Common Kestrel (Falco tinnunculus) is a bird of prey species belonging to the kestrel group of the falcon family Falconidae. It is also known as the European Kestrel, Eurasian Kestrel, or Old World Kestrel. In Britain, where no other brown falcon occurs, it is generally just called "the kestrel". This species occurs over a large range. It is widespread in Europe, Asia, and Africa, as well as occasionally reaching the east coast of North America.
KB: The abbreviation KB or kb can refer to: Computing: Kilobit (kb), a unit of information used, for example, to quantify computer memory or storage capacity Kilobyte (kB), a unit of information used, for example, to quantify computer memory or storage capacity King's Bounty, a 1990 computer game by New World Computing, or, its 2008 sequel.
Kenji Sahara: Kenji Sahara ( Sahara Kenji) (born May 14, 1932) is a Japanese actor. He was born in Kawasaki City, Kanagawa. His real name is Masayoshi Kato ( Kat Masayoshi). Initially he used the name Tadashi Ishihara before changing it when he secured the lead role in Rodan.
Kotoamatsukami: In Japanese Shinto, Kotoamatsukami (, literally means "distinguishing heavenly kami") is the collective name for the first powers which came into existence at the time of the creation of the universe. They were born in Takamagahara, the world of Heaven at the time of the creation, as Amenominakanushi (Central master), Takamimusubi (High creation), Kamimusubi (Divine creation), and a bit later Umashiashikabihikoji (Energy) and Amenotokotachi (Heaven).
Khmer Rouge: The Khmer Rouge was the name given to the followers of the Communist Party of Kampuchea, the totalitarian ruling party in Cambodia from 1975 to 1979, led by Pol Pot, Ieng Sary, Son Sen and Khieu Samphan. The regime led by the Khmer Rouge from 1975 to 1979 was known as the Democratic Kampuchea. This organization is remembered primarily for its policy of social engineering and the genocide this caused.
Kiyoshi Atsumi: Kiyoshi Atsumi ( Atsumi Kiyoshi), born Yasuo Tadokoro ( Tadokoro Yasuo, 10 March 1928 in Tokyo4 August 1996 in Tokyo), was a Japanese film actor. He started his career in 1951 as a comedian at a strip-show theater in Asakusa. After two years of fighting pulmonary tuberculosis, he made his debut on TV in 1956 and on film in 1957. His vivid performance of a lovable, innocent man in a film Dear Mr. Emperor (Haikei Tenno-Heika-Sama) in 1963 established his reputation as an actor.
Karel Hynek M cha: Karel Hynek Mha (16 November 1810 - 6 November 1836) was a Czech romantic poet.
Krupp: The Krupp family, a prominent 400-year-old German dynasty from Essen, have become famous for their steel production and for their manufacture of ammunition and armaments. The family business, known as Friedrich Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp, was the largest company in Europe at the beginning of the 20th century. In 1999 it merged with Thyssen AG to form ThyssenKrupp AG, a large industrial conglomerate.
Kwame Nkrumah: Kwame Nkrumah (21 September 1909 - 27 April 1972), was an influential 20th century advocate of Pan-Africanism, and the leader of Ghana and its predecessor state, the Gold Coast, from 1952 to 1966.
Kangaroo: A kangaroo is a marsupial from the family Macropodidae (macropods, meaning 'large foot'). In common use the term is used to describe the largest species from this family, especially those of the genus Macropus, Red Kangaroo, Antilopine Kangaroo, Eastern Grey Kangaroo and Western Grey Kangaroo. Kangaroos are endemic to the continent of Australia. The smaller macropods are found in Australia and New Guinea.
Guan Yin: Guanyin is the bodhisattva associated with compassion as venerated by East Asian Buddhists, usually as a female. The name Guanyin is short for Guanshiyin which means "Observing the Sounds (or Cries) of the World". It is generally accepted (in the Chinese community) that Guanyin originated as the Sanskrit Avalokitevara (), which is her male form. Commonly known in English as the Goddess of Mercy, Guanyin is also revered by Chinese Daoists (Taoists) as an Immortal.
Kirlian photography: Kirlian photography refers to a form of photogram made with a high voltage. It is named after Semyon Kirlian, who in 1939 accidentally discovered that if an object on a photographic plate is connected to a source of high voltage, small corona discharges (created by the strong electric field at the edges of the object) create an image on the photographic plate.
Chios: Chios is the fifth largest of the Greek islands, situated in the Aegean Sea, seven kilometres (five miles) off the Asia Minor coast. The island is separated from Turkey by the Chios Strait. The island is noted for its strong merchant shipping community, its unique mastic gum and its medieval villages. The eleventh century monastery of Nea Moni, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is located on the island.
Kalsilite: Kalsilite is a vitreous white to grey feldspathoidal mineral that is found in some potassium-rich lavas, such as from Chamengo Crater in Uganda. It has a relative hardness of 5.5. See also: List of minerals
Kaluza Klein theory: In physics, Kaluza-Klein theory (KK theory) is a model that seeks to unify the two fundamental forces of gravitation and electromagnetism. The theory was first published in 1921 and was proposed by the mathematician Theodor Kaluza who extended general relativity to a five-dimensional spacetime.
Kurdish people: The Kurds are an Ethnic-Iranian ethnolinguistic group mostly inhabiting a region known as Kurdistan, which includes adjacent parts of Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Turkey. Substantial Kurdish communities also exist in the cities of western Turkey, and they can also be found in Armenia, Georgia, Israel, Azerbaijan, Russia, Lebanon and, in recent decades, some European countries and the United States. Most speak Kurdish, an Indo-European language of the Iranian branch.
Kangchenjunga: Kangchenjunga,, is the third highest mountain in the world, with an elevation of 8,586 metres (28,169 ft). Kangchenjunga translated means "The Five Treasures of Snows", as it contains five peaks, four of them over 8,450 metres. The treasures represent the five repositories of God, which are gold, silver, gems, grain, and holy books. Kangchenjunga is called Sewalungma in the local Limbu language, translates as 'Mountain that we offer Greetings to'.
Konrad Lorenz: Konrad Zacharias Lorenz (November 7, 1903 in Vienna - February 27, 1989 in Vienna) was an Austrian zoologist, animal psychologist, ornithologist. He shared the 1973 Nobel Prize with Nikolaas Tinbergen and Karl von Frisch. He is often regarded as one of the founders of modern ethology, developing an approach that began with an earlier generation, including his teacher Oskar Heinroth. Lorenz studied instinctive behavior in animals, especially in greylag geese and jackdaws.
K. W. Jeter: Kevin Wayne Jeter (born 1950) is an American science fiction and horror author known for his literary writing style, dark themes, and paranoid, unsympathetic characters. He has written novels set in the Star Trek and Star Wars universe, and has written three (to date) sequels to Blade Runner.
Kay Redfield Jamison: Kay Redfield Jamison (born October 14, 1946) is an American clinical psychologist and writer who is one of the foremost experts on bipolar disorder as well as suffering from the disorder since her early adulthood. She is Professor of Psychiatry at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and is an Honorary Professor of English at the University of St Andrews.
Keykode: Introduced in 1990, Keykode is an Eastman Kodak Company advancement on edge numbers, which are letters, numbers and symbols placed at regular intervals along the edge of 35 mm and 16 mm film to allow for frame-by-frame specific identification. This is a variation of time code designed to uniquely identify frames in a film stock.
Kenilworth Castle: Kenilworth Castle is a castle located in Kenilworth, Warwickshire, England. The medieval castle is known for its extensive water defences, and the great siege by the future Edward I in 1266, plus the ruins of the ornate Great Hall built by John of Gaunt. Its later history includes the visit of Elizabeth I (it still boasts Tudor buildings and gardens) and the dramatic slighting by Cromwell's troops, leaving an open side to the fine Norman keep.
Knout: A knout is a heavy scourge-like multiple whip, usually made of a bunch of rawhide thongs attached to a long handle, sometimes with metal wire or hooks incorporated. The English word stems from a spelling-pronunciation of a French transliteration of the Russian word (knut), which simply means "whip".
Karaoke: Karaoke is a form of interactive entertainment or video game in which amateur singers sing along with recorded music using a microphone and public address system. The music is typically a well-known pop song minus the lead vocal. Lyrics are usually displayed on a video screen, along with a moving symbol or changing color and/or music video images, to guide the singer. In some countries, a karaoke box is called a KTV.
Khornerstone: In computer performance testing, Khornerstone is a multipurpose benchmark from Workstation Labs used in various periodicals such as UNIX Review. The benchmark consists of 22 separate tests, including public domain components as well as proprietary components. Since it contains proprietary components, the source is not free. The results of the 22 tests are normalized, producing a result measured in "Khornerstones". The benchmark was introduced in 1986 and was commonly used until the mid 1990s.
KAOS: KAOS or Kaos may refer to: Apparel: KAOS Worldwide, makers of technical clothing systems People: Kaos of Iberia, an ancient king of Causasian Iberia Kaos, professional wrestler Joey Munoz Kaos or Kenny Kaos, professional wrestler Kenny Stasiowski Kaos, the name by which Thai film director Wych Kaosayananda is credited in the film Ballistic: Ecks vs.
Konstantin Tsiolkovsky: Konstantin Eduardovich Tsiolkovsky (September 17 1857 - September 19, 1935) was an Imperial Russian and Soviet rocket scientist and pioneer of the astronautic theory. He is considered by many to be the father of theoretical astronautics. His works later inspired leading Soviet rocket engineers such as Sergey Korolyov and Valentin Glushko and contributed to the early success of the Soviet space program.
Kent Applicative Operating System: The Kent Applicative Operating System is a functional operating system concept to use dynamic process creation and inter-process communication. The system is based on earlier work by Will R. Stoye. The system allow dynamic creation of functional processes. Processes are stream processors, functions that transform an ingoing to an outgoing stream. Process scheduling is based on evaluation on demand. Inter-process communication is, by message passing, based on Stoye's sorting office concept.
Kendo: Kendo, meaning "of the ", is a modern Japanese martial art of sword-fighting based on traditional Japanese swordsmanship, or Kenjutsu. Kendo is a physically and mentally challenging activity that combines strong martial arts values with sport-like physical elements.
Kary Mullis: Kary Banks Mullis (born December 28, 1944) is an American biochemist and Nobel laureate. Mullis shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Michael Smith. Mullis received the prize for his development of the Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), a process first described by Kjell Kleppe and 1968 Nobel laureate H. Gobind Khorana that allows the amplification of specific DNA sequences. The improvements provided by Mullis have made PCR a central technique in biochemistry and molecular biology.
Kingfisher: Kingfishers are a group of small to medium sized brightly coloured birds in the order Coraciiformes. They have a cosmopolitan distribution, with most species being found in the Old World and Australia. The group is treated either as a single family, Alcedinidae, or as a suborder Alcedines containing three families, Alcedinidae, Halcyonidae, and Cerylidae. There are roughly 90 species of kingfisher. All have large heads, long, sharp, pointed bills, short legs, and stubby tails.
Kesgrave: Kesgrave is a suburb of Ipswich, Suffolk, England.
Kinsey Reports: The Kinsey Reports are two books on human sexual behavior, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male (1948) and Sexual Behavior in the Human Female (1953), by Dr. Alfred Kinsey, Wardell Pomeroy and others. Kinsey was a zoologist at Indiana University and the founder of the Kinsey Institute for Research in Sex, Gender and Reproduction, more widely known as the Kinsey Institute. The research astounded the general public and was immediately controversial and sensational.
Ket: Ket can also refer to: Ket people, a people of Siberia Ket language, the language of the Ket people Ket River, a river in Siberia Ke, a village in south-west Slovakia Ket (Greyhawk), a fictional nation in the Dungeons and Dragons World of Greyhawk campaign setting Ket may also be: Ketamine, a general dissociative anaesthetic The right part,, of bra-ket notation Ket, a Djelibeybian god in Discworld Ket, a girl's name.
Kurt Waldheim: Kurt Josef Waldheim (21 December 1918 - 14 June 2007) was an Austrian diplomat and politician. Waldheim was the fourth Secretary-General of the United Nations from 1972 to 1981, and the ninth President of Austria, from 1986 to 1992. While running for President in Austria in 1985, his service as an intelligence officer in the Wehrmacht during World War II raised international controversy.
AMD K6: The K6 microprocessor was launched by AMD in 1997. The main advantage of this particular microprocessor is that it was designed to fit into existing desktop designs for Pentium branded CPUs. It was marketed as a product which could perform as well as its Intel Pentium II equivalent but at a significantly lower price. The K6 had a considerable impact on the PC market and presented Intel with a serious competition.
K7: K7, K07 or K-7 has several uses: K7, the codename for a generation of AMD CPUs, including the Athlon, Athlon XP, Duron, and certain very early Semprons K7, a short term for an audio cassette, from the French pronunciation of the letter K ("ka") and the number 7 ("sept") K-7, a grade in education in elementary schools K. 7, a Mozart Violin Sonata No.
KA9Q: KA9Q, also called KA9Q NOS or simply NOS, was a popular early implementation of TCP/IP and associated protocols for amateur packet radio systems and smaller personal computers connected via serial lines. It was named after the amateur radio callsign of Phil Karn, who first wrote the software for a CP/M system and then ported it to DOS on the IBM PC. As the KA9Q code was open-source, many radio amateurs modified it, so many different versions were available at the same time.
Keyboard send receive: Keyboard send receive (KSR) is part of a designation for a hard-copy computer terminal, manufactured by Teletype Corporation. The KSR range were lower cost versions of the ASR models.
HMAC: In cryptography, HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code), is a specific construction for calculating a message authentication code (MAC) involving a cryptographic hash function in combination with a secret key. As with any MAC, it may be used to simultaneously verify both the data integrity and the authenticity of a message.
Key escrow: Key escrow (also known as a fair cryptosystem) is an arrangement in which the keys needed to decrypt encrypted data are held in escrow so that, under certain circumstances, an authorized third party may gain access to those keys. These third parties may include businesses, who may want access to employees' private communications, or governments, who may wish to be able to view the contents of encrypted communications.
Key field: A key field is a field or set of fields of a database table which together form a unique identifier for a database record (a table entry). The aggregate of these fields is usually referred to simply as "the key". Key fields also define searches. Also see primary key and foreign key.
Key frame: A key frame in animation and filmmaking is a drawing that defines the starting and ending points of any smooth transition. They are called "frames" because their position in time is measured in frames on a strip of film. A sequence of keyframes defines which movement the spectator will see, whereas the position of the keyframes on the film, video or animation defines the timing of the movement.
Kurt Schwitters: Kurt Hermann Eduard Karl Julius Schwitters (20 June 1887 - 8 January 1948) was a German painter who was born in Hanover, Germany. Schwitters worked in several genres and media, including Dada, Constructivism, Surrealism, poetry, sound, painting, sculpture, graphic design, typography and what came to be known as installation art. He is most famous for his collages, called Merz Pictures.
Kurf rstendamm: The Kurfrstendamm, known locally as the Ku'damm, is one of the most famous avenues in Berlin. The street takes its name from the former Kurfrsten of Brandenburg. This very broad, long boulevard can be considered the Champs-yss of Berlin full of shops, houses, hotels and restaurants. In particular, many fashion designers have their shops there, as well as several car manufacturers' show rooms.
Kenneth Noland: Kenneth Noland (April 10, 1924 - January 5, 2010) was an American abstract painter. He was one of the best-known American Color field painters, although in the 1950s he was thought of as an abstract expressionist and in the early 1960s he was thought of as a minimalist painter. Noland helped establish the Washington Color School movement. In 1977 he was honored by a major retrospective at the Solomon R.
Kahl a: Kahla is a well known Mexican coffee-flavored liqueur. It is dense and sweet, with a distinct taste of coffee, from which it is made. Kahla also contains sugar, corn syrup and vanilla bean.
Kerguelen Islands: The Kerguelen Islands, also known as Desolation Island, are a group of islands in the southern Indian Ocean. The islands are a territory of France. There are no indigenous inhabitants, but France maintains a permanent presence of 50 to 100 scientists, engineers and researchers. The main island, Grande Terre, is 6,675 km in area and is surrounded by another 300 smaller islands and islets, forming an archipelago of 7,215 km.
Kelsey Grammer: Allen Kelsey Grammer (born February 21, 1955), best known as Kelsey Grammer, is an American actor, producer, director, writer, voice artist and comedian best known for his two-decade portrayal of psychiatrist Dr. Frasier Crane in the NBC situation comedies Cheers (nine years) and Frasier (eleven years), and providing the voice of Sideshow Bob on the Fox animated series The Simpsons.
Channels of the Hawaiian Islands: The Alenuihh separates the island of Hawaii and the island of Maui. The maximum depth of this channel is 6100 feet (1900 m).
Kemerovo: Kemerovo is an industrial city in Russia, situated on the Tom River, east-northeast of Novosibirsk. It is the administrative center of Kemerovo Oblast in the major coal mining region of the Kuznetsk Basin. Population: 484,754; 520,263. It is served by Kemerovo International Airport.
Keyword: Keyword may refer to: Keyword (linguistics) Keyword (computer programming) Index term, a term used as a keyword to retrieve documents in an information system such as a catalog or a search engine ', non-fiction book
Kentucky Derby: The Kentucky Derby is a Grade I stakes race for three year-old Thoroughbred horses, held annually in Louisville, Kentucky, United States on the first Saturday in May, capping the two-week-long Kentucky Derby Festival and is widely considered the most prestigious horse race in the world. The race is one and a quarter miles (2 km) at Churchill Downs. Colts and geldings carry 126 pounds and fillies 121 pounds (54.9 kg).
Kemp Town: Kemp Town is a 19th Century residential estate in the east of Brighton in East Sussex, England, UK. Kemp Town was conceived and financed by Thomas Read Kemp. It has given its name to the larger Kemptown region of Brighton. The estate was designed by Charles Busby and Amon Henry Wilds and constructed by Thomas Cubitt. Building work started in 1823 on Arundel Terrace, Chichester Terrace, Lewes Crescent and Sussex Square. Chichester Terrace incorporated the earlier Chichester House.
KFX program: KFX is the kernel language of FX-87. It was described in 'Polymorphic Effect Systems', J.M. Lucassen et al. , Proceedings of the 15th Annual ACM Conference POPL, ACM 1988, pp.47-57.
Karachi: Karachi is the largest city, main seaport and the financial capital of Pakistan, and the capital of the province of Sindh. With a city population of 15.5 million, Karachi is one of the world's largest cities, 13th largest urban agglomeration and the 20th largest metropolitan area in the world.. It is Pakistan's premier centre of banking, industry, and trade.
Koala: The koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) is an arboreal herbivorous marsupial native to Australia, and the only extant representative of the family Phascolarctidae. The koala is found in coastal regions of eastern and southern Australia, from near Adelaide to the southern part of Cape York Peninsula. Populations also extend for considerable distances inland in regions with enough moisture to support suitable woodlands.
Katal: The katal is the SI unit of catalytic activity. It is a derived SI unit for expressing quantity values of catalytic activity of enzymes and other catalysts. Its use is recommended by the General Conference on Weights and Measures and other international organizations. It replaces the non-SI enzyme unit. Enzyme units are, however, still more commonly used than the katal in practice at present, especially in biochemistry.
Killer micro: A killer micro is a microprocessor-based machine that infringes on mini, mainframe, or supercomputer performance turf. Often heard in "No one will survive the attack of the killer micros!", the battle cry of the downsizers. Used especially of RISC architectures. Taken from the title of Eugene Brooks' 1989 paper "Attack of the Killer Micros".
Kill file: A kill file (also killfile, bozo bin or twit list) is a per-user file used by some Usenet reading programs to discard summarily (without presenting for reading) articles matching some unwanted patterns of subject, author, or other header lines. Thus to add a person (or subject) to one's kill file is to arrange for that person to be ignored by one's newsreader in the future. By extension, it may be used for a decision to ignore the person or subject in other media.
Killer poke: In computer jargon, a killer poke is a method of inducing physical hardware damage on a machine and/or its peripherals by the insertion of invalid values, via e.g. BASICs POKE command, into a memory-mapped control register.
Kilobaud: Kilobaud may refer to: One thousand bauds per second P.H.I.R.M. , a 1980s computer hacking group originally known as Kilobaud Kilobaud Microcomputing, a homebrew computer magazine from the 1980s
Kilobit: A kilobit is an expression of grouped bits meaning 1,000 (10) bits. Use of the term to denote a kibibit, although the most common use due to the nature of bits (binary digits), is deprecated and contrary to international standard. The term 'kilobit' is most commonly used in the expression of data rates (digital communication speeds) in the abbreviated form "kbps", "kb/s", or "kbit/s", meaning "kilobits per second".
Kit Carson: Christopher Houston "Kit" Carson (December 24, 1809 - May 23, 1868) was an American frontiersman. Carson left home in rural present-day Missouri at an early age and became a trapper in the West. He gained notoriety for his role as John C. Fremont's guide in the American West. Carson also played a minor role in California during the 1846-48 Mexican-American War. Later he became a rancher in New Mexico.
Kirin: Kirin may refer to: Kirin, the Japanese and Korean word for the Qilin, a mythical beast in Chinese culture and also the word for giraffe in the Ming Dynasty Kirin Brewery Company, Ltd.
Kipper: A kipper is a whole herring, a small, oily fish, that has been split from tail to head, gutted, salted or pickled, and cold smoked. In the United Kingdom and North America they are often eaten grilled for breakfast. In the UK, kippers, along with other preserved fish such as the bloater and buckling, were also once commonly enjoyed as a high tea or supper treat; most popularly with inland and urban working-class populations before World War II.
Kipsigis: The Kipsigis are a pastoralist ethnic group in Kenya, speaking the Kipsigis language. Currently the community practises farming and they are famously known for growing Kenyan "green gold" - tea. They are a sub-group of the Kalenjin and originated in the Sudan, moving into the Kenyan area in the 18th century. The current settlement of the Kipsigis is in the Rift Valley province of Kenya. The Kipsigis are the most numerous of the Kalenjin.
Knife: A knife is any cutting edge or blade, handheld or otherwise, with or without a handle. Knives were used at least two-and-a-half million years ago, as evidenced by the Oldowan tools. Originally made of rock, flint, and obsidian; knives have evolved in construction as technology has with blades being made from bronze, copper, iron, steel, ceramics, and titanium. Every culture has a unique version of the knife.
Kach and Kahane Chai: Kach was a far-right political party in Israel. Founded by Rabbi Meir Kahane in the early 1970s, and following his Kahanist ideology, the party entered the Knesset in 1984 after several electoral failures. However, it was barred from participating in the next election in 1988 under the revised Knesset Elections Law banning parties that incited racism. After Kahane's assassination in 1990 the party split, with Kahane Chai breaking away from the main Kach faction.
Katanga province: Katanga was a southern province in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Between 1971 and 1997, its official name was Shaba Province. Under the new constitution, the province was replaced by four smaller provinces by February 2009. Its regional capital was Lubumbashi. Its area was 518,000 km (larger than California and 16 times larger than Belgium, its former colonial ruler). Katanga had a population estimated in 1998 at about 4,125,000.
Knockout: A knockout (also referred to as a K.O. ) is a winning criterion in several full-contact combat sports, such as boxing, kickboxing, Muay Thai, mixed martial arts, Karate and others sports involving striking. A knockout is usually awarded when one participant is unable to rise from the canvas within a specified period of time, typically because of fatigue, injury (serious or temporarily incapacitating, e.g.
Kington Magna: Kington Magna is a village in the Blackmore Vale area of north Dorset, England with a population of 376 (2001). It is west of Shaftesbury, north of Sturminster Newton and east of Sherborne. The village was founded in the 12th century, but most of the current buildings are no older than the 17th century.
Kalahari Desert: The Kalahari Desert is a large arid to semi-arid sandy area in Southern Africa extending 900,000 square kilometres (350,000 sq mi), covering much of Botswana and parts of Namibia and South Africa, as semi-desert, with huge tracts of excellent grazing after good rains. The Kalahari Desert is the southern part of Africa, and the geography is a portion of desert and a plateau. The Kalahari supports some animals and plants because most of it is not a true desert.
Knowbot Information Service: The Knowbot Information Service (KIS), also known as netaddress, provides a uniform user interface to a variety of remote directory services such as whois, finger, X.500, MCIMail. By submitting a single query to KIS, a user can search a set of remote white pages services and see the results of the search in a uniform format. There are several interfaces to the KIS service including e-mail and telnet. Another KIS interface imitates the Berkeley whois command.
KISS system: KISS is an early low-level programming language on the IBM 650 business computer. It was listed in the Communications of the ACM 2(5):16 (May 1959).
KISS principle: KISS is an acronym for the design principle "keep it simple and stupid", most commonly read as the backronym "keep it simple, stupid!", or sometimes "keep it short and simple". The KISS principle states that simplicity should be a key goal in design, and that unnecessary complexity should be avoided. Some propose that it should follow its own advice by dropping the redundant letter and be just KIS, "keep it simple". Others believe that this final, essential point is the point.
Kit: Kit or KIT may refer to:
KL0: Kernel Language 0 (KL0) is a sequential logic programming language based on Prolog, used in the ICOT Fifth generation computer project.
KL1: KL1, or Kernel Language 1 is an experimental AND-parallel version of KL0 developed for the ICOT Fifth Generation Computer project. KL1 is an implementation of Flat GHC (a subset of the Guarded Horn Clauses language by Kazunori Ueda), making it a parallelised Prolog variant.
Kiosk: In the Mediterranean Basin and the Near East, a kiosk is a small, separated garden pavilion open on some or all sides. Kiosks were common in Persia, India, Pakistan, and in the Ottoman Empire from the 13th century onward. Today, there are many kiosks in and around the Topkap Palace in Istanbul, and they are still a relatively common sight in Greece. The word, which is of Persian origin, refers to an object that acts as a shadow or shade-maker.
Kathmandu: Kathmandu is the capital and largest metropolitan city of Nepal. The city is the urban core of the Kathmandu Valley in the Himalayas, which also contains two sister cities namely Patan or Lalitpur, 5 kilometres (3.1 mi) to its southeast (an ancient city of fine arts and crafts) and Bhaktapur, 14 kilometres (8.7 mi) to its east (city of devotees). It is also acronymed as 'KTM' and named 'tri-city'.
Klamath: The Klamath are a Native American tribe of the Plateau culture area in Southern Oregon.
Klerer-May System: The Klerer-May System is an early system from Columbia University with special mathematics symbols. Its reference manual was two pages long.
Knud Rasmussen: Knud Johan Victor Rasmussen (June 7, 1879-December 21, 1933) was a Greenlandic polar explorer and anthropologist. He has been called the "father of Eskimology" and was the first to cross the Northwest Passage via dog sled. He remains well known in Greenland, Denmark and among Canadian Inuit.
Kipchoge Keino: Kipchoge ("Kip") Keino (born January 17, 1940), chairman of the Kenyan Olympic Committee (KOC), is a retired Kenyan athlete and two-time Olympic gold medalist. Kip Keino was among the first in a long line of successful middle and long distance runners to come from the country and has helped and inspired many of his fellow countrymen and women to become the athletics force that they are today.
KL-ONE: KL-ONE is a well known knowledge representation system in the tradition of semantic networks and frames; that is, it is a frame language. The system is an attempt to overcome semantic indistinctness in semantic network representations and to explicitly represent conceptual information as a structured inheritance network. There is a whole family of KL-ONE-like systems. Frames in KL-ONE are called concepts.
Knute Rockne: Knute Kenneth Rockne (March 4, 1888 - March 31, 1931) was an American football player and is regarded as one of the greatest coaches in college football history. His biography at the College Football Hall of Fame (South Bend, IN) calls him "American football's most-renowned coach. " He was a native Norwegian, and was trained as a chemist at Notre Dame. He is credited with popularizing the use of the forward pass.
Kingsley Amis: Sir Kingsley William Amis, CBE (16 April 1922 - 22 October 1995) was an English novelist, poet, critic and teacher. He wrote more than 20 novels, six volumes of poetry, a memoir, and various short stories, radio and television scripts, and books of social and literary criticism. According to his biographer, Zachary Leader, Amis was "the finest British comic novelist of the second half of the twentieth century. " He is the father of the English novelist Martin Amis.
Keilhauite: Keilhauite (also known as yttrotitanite) is a variety of the mineral titanite of a brownish black color, related to titanite in form. It consists chiefly of silicon dioxide, titanium dioxide, calcium oxide, and yttrium oxide. Keilhauite has a chemical formula of (CaTi,Al2,Fe2,Y2)SiO5. It differs from titanite only in that calcium is substituted by up to 12 percent (Y,Ce)2O3.
Kariba Dam: The Kariba Dam is a hydroelectric dam in the Kariba Gorge of the Zambezi river basin between Zambia and Zimbabwe. It is one of the largest dams in the world at 128 m high and 579 m long.
Kana: Kana are the syllabic Japanese scripts, as opposed to the logographic Chinese characters known in Japan as kanji and the Roman alphabet known as rmaji. There are three kana scripts: modern cursive hiragana (), modern angular katakana (), and the old syllabic use of kanji known as manygana that was ancestral to both. Katakana with a few additions is used to write Ainu. Kana was used in Taiwanese as a gloss for Chinese characters during the Japanese administration of Taiwan.
Knowledge management system: Knowledge Management System (KM System) refers to a system for managing knowledge in organizations for supporting creation, capture, storage and dissemination of information. It can comprise a part (neither necessary or sufficient) of a Knowledge Management initiative. The idea of a KM system is to enable employees to have ready access to the organization's documented base of facts, sources of information, and solutions.
Knights of the Lambda Calculus: The Knights of the Lambda Calculus is a semi-fictional organization of expert LISP and Scheme hackers. The name refers to the lambda calculus, a mathematical formalism invented by Alonzo Church, with which LISP is intimately connected, and references the Knights Templar. There is no actual organization that goes by the name Knights of the Lambda Calculus; it mostly only exists as a hacker culture in-joke. The concept most likely originated at MIT.
Knowbot: A knowbot is a kind of bot that collects information by automatically gathering certain specified information from web sites.
Knuth: Knuth is a name of Nordic origin.
KOMPILER: In computing, the KOMPILER was one of the first language compilation and runtime systems for International Business Machines' IBM 701, the fastest commercial U.S. computer available in 1955. Information on KOMPILER is listed on page 16 of Volume 2, Number 5 (May 1959) of the Communications of the ACM. Known versions are KOMPILER 2 for IBM 701 and KOMPILER 3 for the IBM 704. KOMPILER was eventually replaced by a Fortran compiler on the IBM 704. See also HOPL: Kompiler.
Korn shell: The Korn shell (ksh) is a Unix shell which was developed by David Korn in the early 1980s. It is backwards-compatible with the Bourne shell and includes many features of the C shell as well, such as a command history, which was inspired by the requests of Bell Labs users.
Kilt: The kilt is a knee-length garment with pleats at the rear, originating in the traditional dress of men and boys in the Scottish Highlands of the 16th century. Since the 19th century it has been associated with the wider culture of Scotland in general, or with Celtic (and more specifically Gaelic) heritage elsewhere. It is most often made of woollen cloth in a tartan pattern.
Sara Jane Olson: Sara Jane Olson, formerly Kathleen Ann Soliah (born January 16, 1947), was a member of the Symbionese Liberation Army (SLA) in the 1970s. She grew up in Palmdale, California, the daughter of Palmdale High School teacher and coach Martin Soliah. She has lived most of her life under the alias Sara Jane Olson, which is now her legal name. In 2001, she pled guilty to two counts of possessing explosives with intent to murder stemming from her SLA activities in the 1970s.
Knowledge Query and Manipulation Language: The Knowledge Query and Manipulation Language, or KQML, is a language and protocol for communication among software agents and knowledge-based systems. It was developed in the early 1990s part of the DARPA knowledge Sharing Effort, which was aimed at developing techniques for building large-scale knowledge bases which are shareable and reusable. While originally conceived of as an interface to knowledge based systems, it was soon repurposed as an Agent communication language.
KR: KR or Kr may refer to: South Korea, ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 and WMO country code .
Kent Recursive Calculator: KRC (Kent Recursive Calculator) is a lazy functional language developed by David Turner in (or before?) 1981 based on SASL, with pattern matching, guards and ZF expressions (now more usually called list comprehensions). Two implementations of KRC were written: David Turner's original one in BCPL running on EMAS, and Simon Croft's later one in C under Unix, and KRC was the main language used for teaching functional programming at the University of Kent at Canterbury (UK) from 1982 to 1985.
Kremvax: Kremvax was originally a fictitious Usenet site at the Kremlin, named like the then large number of Usenet VAXen with names of the form foovax. Kremvax was announced on April 1, 1984 in a posting ostensibly originated there by Soviet leader Konstantin Chernenko. The posting was actually forged by Piet Beertema of CWI as an April Fool's joke. Other fictitious sites mentioned in the hoax were moskvax and kgbvax.
KSH: KSH or ksh may refer to: Kenyan shilling, the currency of Kenya Korn shell, a Unix shell developed by David Korn in the early 1980s Ksch language (ISO 639-3 language code), a Ripuarian dialect spoken in Germany Kponti Statisztikai Hivatal, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office Shahid Ashrafi Esfahani Airport (IATA airport code), in Kermanshah, Iran
KSR: KSR is an initialism that may mean: Kendall Square Research Keyboard Send Receive, a type of teleprinter that contains a keyboard but no punched tape equipment Kim Stanley Robinson a kinetic sculpture race of human-powered amphibious works of art KSR v. Teleflex, a significant precedent in U.S. patent law Katahdin Scout Reservation, otherwise known as Camp Roosevelt, a Boy Scouts of America camp in Maine ksrct, otherwise known as K.S.
Knowledge Systems Laboratory: Knowledge Systems Laboratory (KSL) is an artificial intelligence research laboratory within the Department of Computer Science at Stanford University. Current work focuses on knowledge representation for shareable engineering knowledge bases and systems, computational environments for modelling physical devices, architectures for adaptive intelligent systems, and expert systems for science and engineering.
Kernel User Interface Package: Kernel User Interface Package (KUIP) is the user interface to Physics Analysis Workstation (PAW) and other programs which are based on the CERN Program Library.
KRL programming language: KRL is a knowledge representation language, developed by Daniel G. Bobrow and Terry Winograd while at Xerox PARC and Stanford University, respectively. It is a frame-based language. KRL was an attempt to produce a language which was nice to read and write for the engineers who had to write programs in it, processed like human memory, so you could have realistic AI programs, had an underlying semantics which was firmly grounded like logic languages, all in one, all in one language.
Kyoto Common Lisp: Kyoto Common Lisp (KCL) is an implementation of Common Lisp by T. Yuasa and M. Hagiya, written in C to run under Unix-like operating systems. KCL is compiled to ANSI C. It conforms to Common Lisp as described in the 1984 first edition of Guy Steele's book Common Lisp the Language and is available under a licence agreement. KCL is notable in that it was implemented from scratch, outside of the standard committee, solely on the basis of the specification.
Karl Gustav Ahlefeldt: Karl Gustav Ahlefeldt (March 13, 1910 - March 25, 1985) was a Danish film actor. He appeared in the Carl Theodor Dreyer masterpiece Gertrud (1965).
John-F.-Kennedy-Platz: John-F. -Kennedy-Platz (John F. Kennedy Square), formerly Rudolph-Wilde-Platz, in Berlin-Scheberg the the square in front of former city hall of West Berlin. It was here that US President John F. Kennedy gave his famous speech to the Berliners, in which he stated: "Ich bin ein Berliner". The square was renamed John-F. -Kennedy-Platz on 25 November 1963, three days after Kennedy's assassination. A large plaque dedicated to Kennedy is mounted on a column at the entrance of the city hall.
Kateretes: Kateretes is a genus of sap beetle.
James Parry: James Parry (born July 13, 1967), commonly known by his nickname and username Kibo, is a Usenetter known for his sense of humor, various surrealist net pranks, an absurdly long . signature, and a machine-assisted knack for joining any thread in which his nom de guerre is mentioned (""). His exploits have earned him a multitude of enthusiasts, who celebrate him as the head deity of the parody religion kibology, centered on the humor newsgroup alt. religion. kibology.
Keflav k: Keflavk (Icelandic for "Driftwood Bay") is a town in the Reykjanes region in southwest Iceland. In 1995 it merged with Njark and Hafnir to form a municipality called Reykjanesb with a population of 14,000 (June 2008).
Kubla Khan: "Kubla Khan; or, A Vision in a Dream: A Fragment" is a poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, which takes its title from the Mongol and Chinese emperor Kublai Khan of the Yuan Dynasty. Coleridge claimed he wrote the poem in the autumn of 1797 at a farmhouse near Exmoor, England, but it might have been composed on one of a number of other visits to the farm. It also might have been revised a number of times before it was first published in 1816.
Kim Milford: Richard Kim Milford (February 7, 1951 - June 16, 1988) was an American actor, singer-songwriter, and composer. best known for his acting in musicals such as The Rocky Horror Show and Jesus Christ Superstar.
Ken Kesey: Kenneth Elton "Ken" Kesey (September 17, 1935 - November 10, 2001) was an American author, best known for his novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1962), and as a counter-cultural figure who considered himself a link between the Beat Generation of the 1950s and the hippies of the 1960s. "I was too young to be a beatnik, and too old to be a hippie," Kesey said in a 1999 interview with Robert K. Elder.
Kashubian language: Kashubian or Cassubian is one of the Lechitic languages, a subgroup of the Slavic languages. Kashubian is assumed to have evolved from the language spoken by some tribes of Pomeranians called Kashubians, in the region of Pomerania, on the southern coast of the Baltic Sea between the Vistula and Oder rivers. It is closely related to Slovincian, and both of them are dialects of Pomeranian.
Kandahar: Kandahr or Qandahr is the second largest city in Afghanistan, with a population of about 450,000. It is the capital of Kandahar province, located in the south of the country at about 1,005 m (3,297 feet) above sea level. The Arghandab River runs right next to the city. Kandahar is a major trading center for sheep, wool, cotton, silk, felt, food grains, fresh and dried fruit, and tobacco.
Caspar Schwenckfeld: Caspar (or Kaspar) Schwen(c)kfeld von Ossig (1489 or 1490 - 10 December 1561) was a German theologian, writer, and preacher who became a Protestant Reformer and spiritualist, one of the earliest promoters of the Protestant Reformation in Silesia. Schwenckfeld came to Reformation principles through Thomas Mntzer and Andreas Karlstadt. However, he developed his own principles and fell out with Martin Luther over the eucharistic controversy (1524).
Kitt Peak National Observatory: The Kitt Peak National Observatory (KPNO) is a United States astronomical observatory located on 2,096 m (6,880 ft) Kitt Peak of the Quinlan Mountains in the Arizona-Sonoran Desert on the Tohono O'odham Nation, 88 kilometers (55 miles) southwest of Tucson.
Kiritimati: Kiritimati or Christmas Island is a Pacific Ocean atoll in the northern Line Islands and part of the Republic of Kiribati. The island has the greatest land area of any coral atoll in the world: about 322 square kilometres (124 sq mi); its lagoon is about the same size. The atoll is about 150 km (93 mi) in perimeter, while the lagoon shoreline extends for over 48 km (30 mi). Kiritimati comprises over 70% of the total land area of Kiribati, a nation encompassing 33 Pacific atolls and islands.
Ken MacLeod: Ken MacLeod (born 2 August 1954), an award-winning Scottish science fiction writer, lives in South Queensferry near Edinburgh. MacLeod graduated from Glasgow University with a degree in zoology and has worked as a computer programmer and written a masters thesis on biomechanics. His novels often explore socialist, communist and anarchist political ideas, most particularly the variants of Trotskyism and anarcho-capitalism or extreme economic libertarianism.
Karlheinz Stockhausen: Karlheinz Stockhausen (22 August 1928 - 5 December 2007) was a German composer, widely acknowledged by critics as one of the most important (Barrett 1988, 45; Harvey 1975b, 705; Hopkins 1972, 33; Klein 1968, 117) but also controversial (Power 1990, 30) composers of the twentieth and early twenty-first centuries. Another critic calls him "one of the great visionaries of 20th-century music" (Hewett 2007).
Kanem-Bornu Empire: Kanem-Bornu Empire might refer to: Kanem Empire, the Ancient African state founded in the 8th century in what is modern day Chad Bornu Empire, the Medieval African state which continued the dynasty of the Kanem state from what is modern day Nigeria and Niger.
Komondor: The Komondor is a large white colored Hungarian breed of livestock guardian dog with a long, corded coat. The Komondor is an old-established powerful dog breed which has a natural guardian instinct to guard livestock and other property. The Komondor was mentioned for the first time in 1544 in a Hungarian codex. The Komondor breed has been declared one of Hungarys national treasures, to be preserved and protected from modification.
Konstantin Chernenko: Konstantin Ustinovich Chernenko was a Soviet politician and the sixth General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. He led the Soviet Union from 13 February 1984, until his death just thirteen months later on 10 March 1985. Chernenko was also Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet from 11 April 1984, until his death.
Keeshond: The Keeshond is a medium-sized dog with a plush two-layer coat of silver and black fur with a 'ruff' and a curled tail, originating in Germany. Its closest relatives are the other German spitzes such as the Pomeranian. Originally called the German Spitz, more specifically the Wolfsspitz, the name was officially changed to Keeshond in England, where it had been known as the Dutch Barge Dog, in 1926.
Krag-J rgensen: The Krag-Jgensen is a repeating bolt action rifle designed by the Norwegians Ole Herman Johannes Krag and Erik Jgensen in the late 19th century. It was adopted as a standard arm by Denmark, the United States of America and Norway. About 300 were delivered to Boer forces of the Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek, or ZAR. A distinctive feature of the Krag-Jgensen action was its magazine.
Krakatoa: Krakatoa, also spelled Cracatoa or Krakatau, is a volcanic island made of a'a lava in the Sunda Strait between the islands of Java and Sumatra in Indonesia. The name is used for the island group, the main island, and the volcano as a whole.
Kremlin: Kremlin is the Russian word for "fortress", "citadel" or "castle" and refers to any major fortified central complex found in historic Russian cities. This word is often used to refer to the best-known one, the Moscow Kremlin, or metonymically to the government that is based there. Outside Russia, the name "Kremlin" is sometimes mistakenly thought of as being Saint Basil's Cathedral because of its distinctive environment, although this is not a part of the Moscow Kremlin.
Koo Stark: Kathleen Dee-Anne Stark, better known as Koo Stark (born April 26, 1956), is an American film actress and photographer. She is perhaps best known for her appearance in the film Emily and subsequently relationship with Prince Andrew, son of Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom, before his marriage to Sarah, Duchess of York.
Kondratiev wave: Kondratiev wavesalso called Supercycles, surges, long waves or K-wavesare described as regular, sinusoidal-like cycles in the modern (capitalist) world economy. Averaging fifty and ranging from approximately forty to sixty years in length, the cycles consist of alternating periods between high sectoral growth and periods of relatively slow growth.
Kristi Yamaguchi: Kristine Tsuya "Kristi" Yamaguchi-Hedican (born July 12, 1971) is an American figure skater and the 1992 Olympic Champion in women's singles. Yamaguchi also won two World Figure Skating Championships in 1991 and 1992 and a U.S. Figure Skating Championships in 1992. She won one junior world title in 1988 and two national titles in 1989 and 1990 as a pairs skater with Rudy Galindo. In December 2005, she was inducted into the U.S. Olympic Hall of Fame.
Krugerrand: The Krugerrand is a South African gold coin, first minted in 1967 to help market South African gold. It is produced by the South African Mint Company.
Krzysztof Penderecki: Krzysztof Penderecki (born November 23, 1933 in Dbica) is a Polish composer and conductor of classical music.
Kliment Voroshilov: Kliment Yefremovich Voroshilov, popularly known as Klim Voroshilov (4 February 1881 - 2 December 1969) was a Soviet military commander and bureaucrat.
House of Kara or evi: The House of Karaorevi is a noble Serbian dynasty, descended from Karaore. The family had a long blood feud with the Obrenovi dynasty. The dynasty lost the throne in November 1945 when the Communist party seized power in Yugoslavia. Peter II of Yugoslavia never abdicated.
Karl Radek: Karl Bernhardovich Radek (31 October 1885 - 19 May 1939) was a socialist active in the Polish and German movements before World War I and an international Communist leader after the Russian Revolution.
Karl Ferdinand Braun: Karl Ferdinand Braun (6 June 1850 - 20 April 1918) was a German inventor, physicist and Nobel laureate in physics. Braun contributed significantly to the development of the radio and TV technology: he shared with Guglielmo Marconi the 1909 Nobel Prize in Physics.
Karl B ttiger: Karl August Btiger (1760-1835) was a German archaeologist and classicist, and a prominent member of the literary and artistic circles in Weimar and Jena. Btiger was educated at Schulpforta and Leipzig, and under the influence of Johann Gottfried Herder held for thirteen years a headmastership at Weimar, from 1790 to 1804. For the remaining thirty-one years of his life, he resided at Dresden as director of the Museum of Antiques, and was active as a journalist and public lecturer.
Toshiki Kaifu: Toshiki Kaifu ( , Kaifu Toshiki, born January 2, 1931) is a Japanese politician who was the 76th and 77th Prime Minister of Japan from 1989 to 1991. He was born in Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture, and was educated at Chuo University and Waseda University. A member of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), Kaifu ran successfully for the Diet in 1960 and served for sixteen terms totaling 49 years.
Kakinomoto no Hitomaro: Kakinomoto no Hitomaro ( ; c. 662 - 710) was a Japanese poet and aristocrat of the late Asuka period. He was the most prominent of the poets included in the Man'ysh, and was particularly represented in volumes 1 and 2. In Japan, he is considered one of the Thirty-six Poetry Immortals. After the Heian period he was often called "Hito-maru" (&#20024).
Kazimir Malevich: Kazimir Severinovich Malevich, was a Russian painter and art theoretician of Polish descent, pioneer of geometric abstract art and the originator of the Avant-garde Suprematist movement.
Karl Ernst von Baer: Karl Ernst von Baer (28 February 1792 - 28 November 1876) was a Baltic German biologist and a founding father of embryology.
Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions: In United States history, the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions (or Resolves) were political statements drafted in 1798 and 1799, respectively, in favor of states' rights and Strict Constructionism. They were written secretly by Vice President Thomas Jefferson and James Madison.
Keystone Kops: The Keystone Kops featured in a series of silent film comedies about a totally incompetent group of policemen. The movies were produced by Mack Sennett for his Keystone Film Company between 1912 and 1917. The idea came from Hank Mann who also played police chief Tehiezel in the first film before being replaced by Ford Sterling. Their first film was Hoffmeyer's Legacy but their popularity stemmed from the 1913 short The Bangville Police starring Mabel Normand.
Khunjerab Pass: Khunjerab Pass (elevation 4,693 metres) is a high mountain pass in the Karakorum Mountains on the northern border of Pakistan and the Xinjiang Autonmous Region of China. The name is derived from Wakhi for Blood Valley.
Khandi Alexander: Khandi Alexander (born September 4, 1957) is an American dancer, choreographer, and film and television actress. She appears on ' as Doctor Alexx Woods.
Kenneth MacAlpin: Cind mac Ailpn, commonly Anglicised as Kenneth MacAlpin and known in most modern regnal lists as Kenneth I (died 13 February 858) was king of the Picts and, according to national myth, first king of Scots, earning him the posthumous nickname of An Ferbasach, "The Conqueror". Kenneth's undisputed legacy was to produce a dynasty of rulers who claimed descent from him and was the founder of the dynasty which ruled Scotland for much of the medieval period.
Koenigsegg: Koenigsegg Automotive AB is a Swedish manufacturer of high-performance sports cars based in gelholm. In 2009, the company announced they would purchase Saab Automobile from General Motors; however, this deal was later scrapped.
Klaus Fuchs: Klaus Emil Julius Fuchs (29 December 1911 - 28 January 1988) was a German-born British theoretical physicist and atomic spy who in 1950 was convicted of supplying information from the British and American atomic bomb research to the USSR during and shortly after World War II.
Kaliningrad Oblast: Kaliningrad Oblast is a federal subject of Russia situated on the Baltic coast. Population: 1,019,876 (2010 est. ); 955,281; 871,283.. The oblast forms the westernmost part of the Russian Federation, but it has no land connection to the rest of Russia. Since the fall of the Soviet Union it has been an exclave of Russia surrounded by Lithuania, Poland, and the Baltic Sea. Borderless travel to the main part of Russia is only possible by sea or air.
K cell: K cells may refer to: cells of the digestive system that synthesize gastric inhibitory polypeptide natural killer cells the Knudsen cell
Khartoum: Khartoum ( al-Kharm) is the capital of Sudan and of Khartoum State. It is located at the confluence of the White Nile flowing north from Lake Victoria, and the Blue Nile flowing west from Ethiopia. The location where the two Niles meet is known as "al-Mogran". The main Nile continues to flow north towards Egypt and the Mediterranean Sea.
Constantin Stanislavski: Constantin Sergeyevich Stanislavski (17 January 1863 - 7 August 1938), was a Russian actor and theatre director. His innovative contribution to modern European and American realistic acting has remained at the core of mainstream western performance training for much of the last century.
Alpha-Ketoglutaric acid: -Ketoglutaric acid is one of two ketone derivatives of glutaric acid. (The term "ketoglutaric acid," when not further qualified, almost always refers to the alpha variant. -Ketoglutaric acid varies only by the position of the ketone functional group, and is much less common. ) Its anion, -ketoglutarate (also called oxo-glutarate) is an important biological compound. It is the keto acid produced by de-amination of glutamate, and is an intermediate in the Krebs cycle.
Kinetic energy: The kinetic energy of an object is the extra energy which it possesses due to its motion. It is defined as the work needed to accelerate a body of a given mass from rest to its current velocity. Having gained this energy during its acceleration, the body maintains this kinetic energy unless its speed changes. Negative work of the same magnitude would be required to return the body to a state of rest from that velocity.
King's Royal Rifle Corps: The King's Royal Rifle Corps was a British Army infantry regiment, originally raised in colonial North America as the Royal Americans, and recruited from American colonists. Later known informally as the '60th Rifles', the regiment served for more than 200 years throughout the British Empire. In 1966 the regiment became part of the Royal Green Jackets.
Keynesian economics: Keynesian economics (also called Keynesianism and Keynesian Theory) is a macroeconomic theory based on the ideas of 20th-century British economist John Maynard Keynes. Keynesian economics argues that private sector decisions sometimes lead to inefficient macroeconomic outcomes and therefore, advocates active policy responses by the public sector, including monetary policy actions by the central bank and fiscal policy actions by the government to stabilize output over the business cycle.
Klaus Barbie: Klaus Barbie (October 25, 1913 - September 25, 1991) was an SS-Hauptsturmfhrer (rank approximately equivalent to army captain), Gestapo member and war criminal. He was known as the Butcher of Lyon.
Katina Paxinou: Katina Paxinou (December 17, 1900 - February 22, 1973) was an Academy Award-winning Greek film and theatre actress.
Khoisan languages: The Khoisan languages (also known as the Khoesan or Khoesaan languages) are the click languages of Africa, which do not belong to other language families. They include languages indigenous to southern and eastern Africa, though some, such as the Khoi languages, appear to have moved to their current locations not long before the Bantu expansion. In southern Africa their speakers are the Khoi and Bushmen (Saan), in east Africa the Sandawe and Hadza.
Kinglassie: Kinglassie is a small village in central Fife, Scotland. It is located 0.5 miles to the southwest of Glenrothes. The population of the village was recorded as 1,320 in the 2001 census.
Kendall Square Research: Kendall Square Research (KSR) was a supercomputer company headquartered originally in Kendall Square in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1986, near MIT. It was co-founded by Steven Frank and Henry Burkhardt III, who had previously helped found Data General and Encore Computer and was one of the original team that designed the PDP-8. KSR produced two models of supercomputer, the KSR1 and KSR2.
Kalat Pakistan: Qalat or Kalat is a historical town located in Kalat District, Balochistan, Pakistan. Qalat is the capital of Qalat District and is known locally as Qalat-e Baluch. Qalat, formerly Qilat, is located roughly in the center of Balochistan, Pakistan, south and slightly west of the provincial capital Quetta. It was the capital of the Qalat Khanate. The population is almost completely Muslim.
Kashmir: Kashmir is the northwestern region of the Indian subcontinent. Until the mid-19th century, the term Kashmir geographically denoted only the valley between the Great Himalayas and the Pir Panjal mountain range. Contemporarily, Kashmir denotes a larger area that includes the Indian administered state of Jammu and Kashmir, the Pakistani administered Gilgit-Baltistan and Azad Kashmir, and the Chinese-administered regions of Aksai Chin and the Trans-Karakoram Tract.
Kordofanian languages: The Kordofanian languages are a geographic grouping of three to five language families spoken in the Nuba Mountains of Kordofan Province, Sudan. In 1963 Joseph Greenberg added them to the Niger-Congo family, creating his Niger-Kordofanian proposal. The Kordofanian languages have not been shown to be more distantly related than other branches of Niger-Congo, however, nor have they been shown to constitute a valid group.
Katherine MacLean: Katherine Anne MacLean (born January 22, 1925) is an American science fiction author best known for her short stories of the 1950s which examined the impact of technological advances on individuals and society. Brian Aldiss noted that she could "do the hard stuff magnificently," while Theodore Sturgeon observed that she "generally starts from a base of hard science, or rationalizes psi phenomena with beautifully finished logic.
K9: K9 or K-9 is an abbreviation and homophone of Canine. It may refer to: A variety of entries, most related to dogs. The term originated in the military, where designations such as G-2 are common, making K-9 a rare official pun, being similar to "canine". The term, originally referencing war dogs, has since carried over to police, and sentry and assistance dogs as well.
Khwaja Ahmad Abbas: Khwaja Ahmad Abbas (7 June 1914 - 1 June 1987), popularly known as K. A. Abbas, was an Indian film director, novelist, screenwriter, and a journalist in the Urdu, Hindi and English languages. He was the maker of important Hindi films like, Saat Hindustani, Shehar Aur Sapna, Palme d'Or (Golden Palm) winner at theCannes Film Festival - Neecha Nagar, Cannes Film Festival nominated Pardesi and the screenwriter for the best of Raj Kapoor films.
Kenneth Kaunda: Kenneth David Kaunda, affectionately known as KK (born April 28, 1924) served as the first President of Zambia, from 1964 to 1991.
K2: K2 is the second-highest mountain on Earth. With a peak elevation of 8,611 metres (28,251 ft), K2 is part of the Karakoram range, and is located on the border between the Taxkorgan Tajik Autonomous County of Xinjiang, China and Gilgit, in Gilgit-Baltistan of Pakistan. K2 is known as the Savage Mountain due to the difficulty of ascent and the 2nd highest fatality rate among the 'eight thousanders' for those who climb it. For every four people who have reached the summit, one has died trying.
Kiln: Kilns are thermally insulated chambers, or ovens, in which controlled temperature regimes are produced. They are used to harden, burn or dry materials.
Kiwi: Kiwi are flightless birds endemic to New Zealand, in the genus Apteryx and family Apterygidae. At around the size of a domestic chicken, kiwi are by far the smallest living ratites and lay the largest egg in relation to their body size. There are five recognised species, all of which are endangered. The kiwi is a national symbol of New Zealand.
Kiwifruit: The kiwifruit, often shortened to kiwi in many parts of the world, is the edible berry of a cultivar group of the woody vine Actinidia deliciosa and hybrids between this and other species in the genus Actinidia. The Actinidia is native to North East Asia, particularly South China. The most common cultivars of kiwifruit are oval, about the size of a large hen's egg (5-8 cm / 2-3 in long and 4.5-5.5 cm / 1-2 in diameter).
Konrad Emil Bloch: Konrad Emil Bloch (b. January 21, 1912 - October 15, 2000) was a German American biochemist. Bloch received Nobel Prize in Medicine or Physiology in 1964 for discoveries concerning the mechanism and regulation of the cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism.
Kiel Canal: The Kiel Canal, until 1948 known as the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Kanal, is a 61 miles (98 kilometres) long canal in the German Bundesland Schleswig-Holstein that links the North Sea at Brunsbttel to the Baltic Sea at Kiel-Holtenau. An average of 250 nautical miles (460 kilometers) is saved by using the Kiel Canal instead of going around the Jutland Peninsula. This not only saves time but also avoids potentially dangerous storm-prone seas.
Klement Gottwald: Klement Gottwald was a Czechoslovakian Communist politician, longtime leader of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KS or CPCz or CPC), prime minister and president of Czechoslovakia.
Komodo dragon: The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis) is a species of lizard that inhabits the islands of Komodo, Rinca, Flores, and Gili Motang in Indonesia. A member of the monitor lizard family, it is the largest living species of lizard, growing to an average length of 2 to 3 metres (6.6 to 9.8 ft) and weighing around 70 kilograms (150 lb).
Karl Amadeus Hartmann: Karl Amadeus Hartmann (2 August 1905 - 5 December 1963) was a German composer. Some have lauded him as the greatest German symphonist of the 20th century, although he is now largely overlooked, particularly in English-speaking countries.
Kettlebaston: Kettlebaston, is a tiny hamlet with just over 30 inhabitants, in the heart of rural Suffolk, located around 3 miles (5 km) east of Lavenham. It derives its name from Kitelbeornastuna, (Kitelbjorn's farmstead - O. Scand. pers. name + O.E. Tun), later evolving to Kettlebarston, (which is how the name is still pronounced), and finally to the current spelling. Its existence was first recorded in 1086 in the Domesday Book.
Koalang: Koalang is a term invented by Janusz A. Zajdel, Polish science fiction writer. It was the language used by people in a totalitarian world called Paradyzja (in Zajdel's 1984 book by the same title, Paradyzja). The English term would be probably something like 'asalang'; the "ko-al" part in "koalang" comes from Polish words "kojarzeniowo-aluzyjny", associative-allusive.
Kobellite: Kobellite (Pb22Cu430S69) is a gray, fibrous, metallic mineral, a sulfide of antimony, bismuth, and lead. It is a member of the izoklakeite - berryite series with silver and iron substituting in the copper site and a vaying ratio of bismuth, antimony, and lead. It crystallizes with orthorhombic dipyramidal crystals. Locations include Hvena, Sweden; Ouray, Colorado; and Wake County, North Carolina, USA. Named after Wolfgang Franz von Kobell (1803-1882), German mineralogist.
Kayak: A kayak is a small human-powered boat that traditionally has a covered deck, and one or more cockpits, each seating one paddler who strokes a double-bladed paddle. The cockpit is covered by a spraydeck (skirt) that keeps the inside of the boat (and the paddler's lower body) dry.
Kaiserliche Marine: The Kaiserliche Marine or Imperial Navy was the German Navy created by the formation of the German Empire. It existed between 1871 and 1919, growing out of the Prussian Navy and Norddeutsche Bundesmarine. Kaiser Wilhelm II greatly expanded the Navy, causing a naval arms race between the German Empire and the British Empire. The Navy grew to become one of the greatest maritime forces in the world during its existence, second only to that of the Royal Navy.
Kriegsmarine: The Kriegsmarine was the name of the German Navy between 1935 and 1945, during the Nazi regime, superseding the Reichsmarine, and the Kaiserliche Marine of World War I. The Kriegsmarine was one of three official branches of the Wehrmacht.
Kami: Kami is the Japanese word for the spirits, natural forces, or essence in the Shinto faith. Although the word is sometimes translated as "god" or "deity," some Shinto scholars argue that such a translation can cause a misunderstanding of the term (Ono, 1962). Kami's wide variety of usage can be compared to the Sanskrit Deva and the Hebrew Elohim, which also refer to God, gods, angels and spirits.
Kryptonite: Kryptonite is a fictional element from the Superman mythos, originating in the Superman radio show series. Despite the name, it has no connection to the real chemical element krypton. The material is usually shown as having been created from the remains of Superman's native planet of Krypton, and generally has detrimental effects on Superman and other Kryptonians. The name "kryptonite" covers a variety of forms of the substance, but usually refers to the most common "green" form.
Knights of Labor: The Knights of Labor, also known as Noble and Holy Order of the Knights of Labor, was one of the most important American labor organizations of the 19th century. Founded by nine Philadelphia tailors in 1869 and led by Uriah Smith Stephens, its ideology may be described as producerist, demanding an end to child and convict labor, equal pay for women, a progressive income tax, and the cooperative employer-employee ownership of mines and factories.
Konqueror: Konqueror is a web browser and file manager that provides file-viewer functionality to a wide variety of things: local files, files on a remote ftp server, files in a disk image, etc. It is designed as a core part of the KDE desktop environment. It is developed by volunteers and can run on most Unix-like operating systems and on Windows systems too.
Key signature: In musical notation, a key signature is a series of sharp or flat symbols placed on the staff, designating notes that are to be consistently played one semitone higher or lower than the equivalent natural notes unless otherwise altered with an accidental. Key signatures are generally written immediately after the clef at the beginning of a line of musical notation, although they can appear in other parts of a score, notably after a double bar.
Kutia: Kutia is a sweet grain pudding, traditionally served in Russian, Ukrainian, Lithuanian, Belarusian and Polish cultures. Kutia is often the first dish in the traditional twelve-dish Christmas Eve supper (also known as Svyateh Vetchnyat). It is rarely served at other times of the year. It resembles koliva from Serbia or Romania (used usually for funerals), but the latter is mixed only with walnuts, sugar and raisins.
Knaresborough Castle: Knaresborough Castle is a ruined fortress overlooking the River Nidd in the town of Knaresborough, North Yorkshire, England.
Kid Rock: Robert James Ritchie (born January 17, 1971), known by his stage name Kid Rock, is an American singer-songwriter and rapper with five Grammy Award nominations. Kid Rock is known for music that incorporates elements of hip hop, rap metal, blues rock, southern rock, funk and country music.
KOffice: KOffice is a free open source office suite which is available for Windows, Linux, Mac OS X and Haiku OS . It contains a word processor, a spreadsheet application and a presentation program.
Fumimaro Konoe: Prince Fumimaro Konoe (often Konoye, October 12, 1891 - December 16, 1945) was a Japanese politician who served as the 34th, 38th and 39th Prime Minister of Japan and founder/leader of the Taisei Yokusankai.
Kosovo: Kosovo is a disputed territory in the Balkans. Its majority is governed by the partially-recognised Republic of Kosovo, a self-declared independent state which has de facto control over much of the territory; the exceptions are Serb enclaves, the largest one being North Kosovo.
Kamchatka Oblast: Kamchatka Oblast was (until being incorporated into Kamchatka Krai on July 1, 2007) a federal subject of Russia. To the north, it bordered Magadan Oblast and Chukotka Autonomous Okrug. Koryak Autonomous Okrug was located in the northern part of the oblast. Including Koryakia, the total area of the oblast was 472,300 km, encompassing the southern half of the Kamchatka Peninsula. The climate is cold and humid. Kamchatka's natural resources include coal, gold, mica, pyrites, and natural gas.
Konix Multisystem: Konix was a British computer peripheral company primarily known for making joysticks such as the distinctive Speed King during the 1980s. Although this was its primary business for years, its place in videogame folklore was cemented by its ambitious and ultimately ill-fated plans to release its own video game console, the Konix Multisystem.
Kowtow: Kowtow is the act of deep respect shown by kneeling and bowing so low as to have one's head touching the ground. An alternative Chinese term is ketou; however, the meaning is somewhat altered: k originally meant "knock with reverence", whereas k has the general meaning of "touch upon (a surface)". In Han Chinese culture, the kowtow is the highest sign of reverence.
Klein bottle: In mathematics, the Klein bottle is a non-orientable surface, informally, a surface with no identifiable "inner" and "outer" sides. Other related non-orientable objects include the Mius strip and the real projective plane. Whereas a Mius strip is a two-dimensional surface with boundary, a Klein bottle has no boundary. (For comparison, a sphere is an orientable surface with no boundary. ) The Klein bottle was first described in 1882 by the German mathematician Felix Klein.
Kennedy: Kennedy may refer to: John F. Kennedy (1917-1963), the 35th President of the United States Robert F. Kennedy (1925-1968), the 64th Attorney General of the United States & U.S. Senator from New York Edward "Ted" Kennedy (1932-2009), U.S.
Icehenge: Icehenge (1985) is a science fiction novel by Kim Stanley Robinson. Though it was published almost ten years before Kim Stanley Robinson's acclaimed Mars trilogy and takes place in a different version of the future, Icehenge contains elements that should be familiar to readers of the Mars series. Extreme human longevity, Martian revolution, historical revisionism, and shifts between primary characters are all present.
Knights who say Ni: The Knights Who Say Ni! are a band of knights from the comedy film Monty Python and the Holy Grail, feared for the manner in which they utter the word "ni" (like knee but clipped short). They are the keepers of the sacred words: Ni, Peng, and Neee-Wom.
K nstlerroman: A Knstlerroman (plural -ane) is a specific sub-genre of Bildungsroman; it is a novel about an artist's growth to maturity. Such novels often depict the struggles of a sensitive youth against the values of a bourgeois society of his or her time.
Kwanzaa: Kwanzaa is a weeklong celebration held in the United States honoring universal African heritage and culture, marked by participants lighting a kinara (candle holder). It is observed from December 26 to January 1 every year. Kwanzaa consists of seven days of celebration, featuring activities such as candle-lighting and libations, and culminating in a feast and gift giving. It was created by Ron Karenga and was first celebrated from December 26, 1966 to January 1, 1967.
Ko obrzeg: Koobrzeg is a city in Middle Pomerania in north-western Poland with some 50,000 inhabitants (as of 2000). Koobrzeg is located on the Parsta River on the south coast of the Baltic Sea (in the middle of the section divided by the Oder and Vistula Rivers). It has been the capital of Koobrzeg County in West Pomeranian Voivodship since 1999, and previously was in Koszalin Voivodship (1950-1998). The name of the town was first mentioned by Thietmar of Merseburg as Salsa Cholbergiensis.
Kingdom of Judah: The Kingdom of Judah existed at two periods in Jewish history. According to the Hebrew Bible, a kingdom emerged in Judah after the death of Saul, when the tribe of Judah elevated David, who came from the Tribe of Judah, to rule over it. After seven years David became king of a reunited Kingdom of Israel, and David moved the capital from Hebron to Jerusalem. However, in about 930 BC the united kingdom split, with ten of the twelve Tribes of Israel rejecting Solomon's son Rehoboam as their king.
Kingdom of Israel Samaria: The Kingdom of Israel was one of the successor states to the older United Monarchy (also often called the 'Kingdom of Israel'). It existed roughly from the 930s BC until about the 720s BC, when the kingdom was conquered by the Assyrian Empire. The major cities of the kingdom were Shechem, Tirzah, and Shomron. Historians often refer to ancient Israel as the Northern Kingdom to differentiate it from the Southern Kingdom of Judah.
KWord: KWord is a free word processor, a member of the KOffice project and of the K Desktop Environment. The text-layout scheme in KWord is based on frames, making it similar to FrameMaker by Adobe. These can be placed anywhere on the page, and can incorporate text, graphics and embedded objects. Each new page is a new frame, but the text is able to flow through KWords ability to link frames together. The use of frames means that complex graphical layouts can be achieved relatively easily in KWord.
Elah: Elah may refer to: Elah, a name of the Jewish god King Elah of Israel The Valley of Elah, where the biblical David fought Goliath In the Valley of Elah, a 2007 film
Kenneth Lee Pike: Kenneth Lee Pike (June 9, 1912-December 31, 2000), also known during his life as Ken Pike, was an American linguist and anthropologist. He was the originator of the theory of tagmemics and coiner of the terms "emic" and "etic".
Key: Key may refer to: Key (lock), device used to open a lock or door Key (cryptography), a piece of information that controls the operation of a cryptography algorithm
K-Meleon: K-Meleon is a web browser for the Microsoft Windows platform. Based on the same Gecko layout engine as Mozilla Firefox, K-Meleon uses native Windows API to create the user interface (instead of using Mozilla's cross-platform XUL layer), and as a result, is tightly integrated into the look and feel of the Windows desktop; this approach is similar to that of Galeon and Epiphany (for the GNOME desktop), and Camino. This also makes K-Meleon less resource-intensive and more responsive to user input.
Klaus Maria Brandauer: Klaus Maria Brandauer (born 22 June 1944) is an Austrian actor, film director, and pedagogue.
Kulak: Kulaks were a category of relatively affluent peasants in the later Russian Empire, Soviet Russia, and early Soviet Union. The word kulak originally referred to independent farmers in the Russian Empire who emerged as a result of the Stolypin reform which began in 1906. The Stolypin reform created a new class of landowners who were allowed to acquire for credit a plot of land from the large estate owners, and the credit (a kind of mortgage loan) was to be repaid from farm work.
KC-135 Stratotanker: The Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker was the first jet powered aerial refueling tanker of the US Air Force, replacing the KC-97 Stratotanker. Similar in design to the later and enlarged Boeing 707 airliner, it was initially tasked to refuel strategic bombers, but was used extensively in the Vietnam war and later conflicts such as Desert Storm to extend the range and endurance of both Air Force and Navy tactical fighters and bombers.
Kittiwake: The kittiwakes are two closely related seabird species in the gull family Laridae, the Black-legged Kittiwake (R. tridactyla) and the Red-legged Kittiwake (R. brevirostris). The epithets "Black-legged" and "Red-legged" are used to distinguish the two species in North America, but in Europe, where R. brevirostris is not found, the Black-legged Kittiwake is often known simply as Kittiwake, or more colloquially in some areas as Tickleass or Tickleace.
Katsuhiro Otomo: Katsuhiro Otomo (, tomo Katsuhiro, born April 14, 1954) is a Japanese manga artist, film director, and screenwriter. He is perhaps best known for being the creator of the manga Akira and its anime adaptation, which are extremely famous and influential. Otomo has also directed several live-action films, such as the 2006 feature film adaptation of the Mushishi manga.
Kate Bush: Kate Bush (born Catherine Bush; 30 July 1958) is an English singer-songwriter, musician and record producer. Her eclectic musical style and idiosyncratic vocal style have made her one of the United Kingdom's most successful solo female performers of the past 30 years. Bush was signed by EMI at the age of 16 after being recommended by Pink Floyd's David Gilmour.
Kimberly Beck: Kimberly Beck (born January 9, 1956; Glendale, California) is an American actress, with over sixty television and film roles to her credit.
Kevin Warwick: Kevin Warwick (born 9 February 1954 Coventry, UK) is a British scientist and professor of cybernetics at the University of Reading, Reading, Berkshire, United Kingdom. He is best known for his studies on direct interfaces between computer systems and the human nervous system, although he has also done much research in the field of robotics.
Kirsten Dunst: Kirsten Caroline Dunst (born April 30, 1982) is an American actress, model, and singer. She made her film debut in Oedipus Wrecks, a short film directed by Woody Allen for the anthology New York Stories (1989). At the age of 12, Dunst gained widespread recognition playing the role of vampire Claudia in ' (1994), a performance for which she was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress. The same year she appeared in Little Women, to further acclaim.
Kocher-Debre-Semelaigne syndrome: The Kocher-Debr-Semelaigne syndrome is a (myopathy) of hypothyroidism in infancy or childhood characterised by lower extremity or generalized muscular hypertrophy, myxoedema, short stature and cretinism. The absence of painful spasms and pseudomyotonia differentiates this syndrome from Hoffmann syndrome. The syndrome is named after Emil Theodor Kocher, Robert Debr and Georges Semelaigne.
Koi: Koi, or more specifically nishikigoi, are ornamental domesticated varieties of the common carp (Cyprinus carpio) that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor ponds and water gardens. They are also called Japanese carp. Koi were developed from common carp in ancient China in Jin Dynasty and was later transfered to Korea and Japan, and are still popular there because they are a symbol of love and friendship.
Kuwaiti oil fires: The Kuwaiti oil fires were a result of the scorched earth policy of Iraqi military forces retreating from Kuwait in 1991 after conquering the country but being driven out by Coalition military forces. The resulting fires burned out of control because of the dangers of sending in firefighting crews. Land mines had been placed in areas around the oil wells, and a military cleaning of the areas was necessary before the fires could be put out.
Kansas City Missouri: Kansas City is the largest city in the U.S. state of Missouri. It encompasses 318 square miles (820 km) in parts of Jackson, Clay, Cass, and Platte counties. It is one of two county seats of Jackson County, the other being Independence, just to the city's east. The city also serves as the anchor city of the Kansas City Metropolitan Area, second largest in Missouri, and largest with territory in Kansas (Wichita is the largest metropolitan area anchored in Kansas).
Knut Hamsun: Knut Hamsun (August 4, 1859 - February 19, 1952) was a Norwegian author. He was praised by King Haakon VII of Norway as Norway's soul. In 1920, he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature for the epic, Growth of the Soil. He insisted that the main object of modern literature should be the intricacies of the human mind, that writers should describe the "whisper of blood, and the pleading of bone marrow".
Lynx: A lynx (plural lynx) is any of four big-sized wild cats. All are members of the genus Lynx, but there is considerable confusion about the best way to classify felids at present, and some authorities classify them as part of the genus Felis. The Caracal, despite sometimes being called Persian lynx or African lynx, does not belong to this genus.
Karen Kain: Karen Alexandria Kain, CC is a retired Canadian ballet dancer.
Kurt Georg Kiesinger: Kurt Georg Kiesinger (6 April 1904-9 March 1988) was a conservative German politician and Chancellor of West Germany from 1 December 1966 until 21 October 1969.
Keiretsu: A keiretsu (, lit. system, series, grouping of enterprises, order of succession) is a set of companies with interlocking business relationships and shareholdings. It is a type of business group. There are three types of keiretsu:
Lindy Hop: The Lindy Hop is based on the popular Charleston and named for Charles Lindbergh's Atlantic crossing in 1927. It evolved in New York City in the 1920s and '30s and originally evolved with the jazz music of that time. Lindy was a fusion of many dances that preceded it or were popular during its development but is mainly based on jazz, tap, breakaway and Charleston. It is frequently described as a jazz dance and is a member of the swing dance family.
Leisure: Leisure or free time, is a period of time spent out of work and essential domestic activity. It is also the period of recreational and discretionary time before or after compulsory activities such as eating and sleeping, going to work or running a business, attending school and doing homework, household chores, and day-to-day stress. The distinction between leisure and compulsory activities is loosely applied, i.e.
Location parameter: In statistics, a location family is a class of probability distributions parametrized by a scalar- or vector-valued parameter , which determines the "location" or shift of the distribution. Formally, this means that the probability density functions or probability mass functions in this class have the form Here, is called the location parameter. In other words, when you graph the function, the location parameter determines where the origin will be located.
Leslie Caron: Leslie Claire Margaret Caron (born 1 July 1931) is a French film actress and dancer, who appeared in 45 films between 1951 and 2003. Caron is best known for the musical films An American in Paris (1951), Lili (1953), Daddy Long Legs (1955), Gigi (1958), and for the non-musical films Fanny (1961), The L-Shaped Room (1962), and Father Goose (1964). She received two Academy Award nominations for Best Actress. She speaks French and English.
Larry Wall: Larry Wall (born September 27, 1954) is a programmer and author, most widely known for his creation of the Perl programming language in 1987.
Latvia: Latvia, officially the Republic of Latvia is a country in the Baltic region of Northern Europe. It is bordered to the north by Estonia (343 km), to the south by Lithuania (588 km), to the east by the Russian Federation (276 km), and to the southeast by Belarus (141 km). Across the Baltic Sea to the west lies Sweden. The territory of Latvia covers 64,589 km and it has a temperate seasonal climate.
Language: A language is a particular kind of system for encoding and decoding information. Since language and languages became an object of study by the ancient grammarians, the term has had many definitions. The English word derives from Latin lingua, "language, tongue," with a reconstructed Proto-Indo-European root of *dngh-, "tongue," a metaphor based on the use of the physical organ in speech.
Luxembourg: Luxembourg, officially the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, is a small, landlocked country in western Europe, bordered by Belgium, France, and Germany. Luxembourg has a population of under half a million people in an area of approximately 2,586 square kilometres. Luxembourg is a parliamentary representative democracy with a constitutional monarch; it is ruled by a Grand Duke. It is the world's only remaining sovereign Grand Duchy.
Laura Bush: Laura Lane Welch Bush (born November 4, 1946) is the wife of the forty-third President of the United States, George W. Bush, and was the First Lady of the United States from January 20, 2001 to January 20, 2009. Mrs. Bush has had a love for books and reading since childhood, and her life and education have reflected that interest. She graduated from Southern Methodist University in 1968 with a Bachelor's degree in education, and soon took a job as a second grade school teacher.
Lorisidae: Lorisidae (or sometimes Loridae) is a family of strepsirrhine primates. The lorids are all slim arboreal animals and include the lorises, pottos and angwantibos. Lorids live in tropical, central Africa as well as in south and southeast Asia.
Linnaean taxonomy: Linnaean taxonomy is either the particular classification (taxonomy) of Linnaeus, as set forth in his Systema Naturae (1735) and subsequent works. In the taxonomy of Linnaeus there are three kingdoms, divided into classes, and they, in turn, into orders, genera, and species, with an additional rank lower than species. a term for rank-based classification of organisms, in general.
Lawyer: A lawyer, according to Black's Law Dictionary, is "a person learned in the law; as an attorney, counsel or solicitor; a person licensed to practice law. " Law is the system of rules of conduct established by the sovereign government of a society to correct wrongs, maintain the stability of political and social authority, and deliver justice.
Lysergic acid diethylamide: Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD-25, LSD), formerly lysergide, commonly known as acid, is a semisynthetic psychedelic drug of the ergoline and tryptamine families. LSD is non-addictive, non-toxic, and is well known for its psychological effects which can include altered thinking processes, closed and open eye visuals, synaesthesia, a sense of time distortion, ego death and spiritual experiences, as well as for its key role in 1960s counterculture.
Learning music by ear: Learning music by ear is done by repeatedly listening to other musicians and then attempting to recreate what one hears. This is how people learn music in any musical tradition in which there is no complete musical notation. Many people in cultures which have notation still learn by ear and ear training, often through a musicianship course at a music conservatory or college, is common practice among those who use notation extensively.
Logrolling: Logrolling is the trading of favors or quid pro quo, such as vote trading by legislative members to obtain passage of actions of interest to each legislative member. It is also the "cross quoting" of papers by academics in order to drive up reference counts. The Nuttall Encyclopedia describes log-rolling as "mutual praise by authors of each other's work.
Louvre: The Mus du Louvre, or officially the Grand Louvre in English, the Louvre Museum or Great Louvre, or simply the Louvre is one of the world's largest museums, the most visited museum in the world, and a historic monument. It is a central landmark of Paris, France and is located on the Right Bank of the Seine in the 1st arrondissement (district). Nearly 35,000 objects from prehistory to the 19th century are exhibited over an area of 60,600 square metres (652,300 square feet).
Love: Love is any of a number of emotions related to a sense of strong affection and attachment. The word ' can refer to a variety of different feelings, states, and attitudes, ranging from generic pleasure ("I loved that meal") to intense interpersonal attraction ("I love my wife"). This diversity of uses and meanings, combined with the complexity of the feelings involved, makes love unusually difficult to consistently define, even compared to other emotional states.
Forever Changes: Forever Changes is the third album released by the Los Angeles-based band Love. The album was released by Elektra Records in November 1967. In 2003, Rolling Stone magazine ranked Forever Changes 40th in its list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.
Kepler's laws of planetary motion: In astronomy, Kepler's laws give an approximate description of the motion of planets around the Sun. Kepler's laws are: The orbit of every planet is an ellipse with the Sun at a focus. A line joining a planet and the Sun sweeps out equal areas during equal intervals of time. The square of the orbital period of a planet is directly proportional to the cube of the semi-major axis of its orbit.
Laser: Light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation (LASER or laser) is a mechanism for emitting electromagnetic radiation, typically light or visible light, via the process of stimulated emission. The emitted laser light is (usually) a spatially coherent, narrow low-divergence beam, that can be manipulated with lenses. In laser technology, "coherent light" denotes a light source that produces (emits) light of in-step waves of identical frequenc, phase, and polarization.
Live action role-playing game: A live action role-playing game (LARP) is a form of role-playing game where the participants physically act out their characters' actions. The players pursue goals within a fictional setting represented by the real world, while interacting with each other in character. The outcome of player actions may be mediated by game rules, or determined by consensus among players. Event arrangers called gamemasters decide the setting and rules to be used and facilitate play.
Lithium: Lithium is a soft, silver-white metal that belongs to the alkali metal group of chemical elements. It is represented by the symbol Li, and it has the atomic number 3. Under standard conditions it is the lightest metal and the least dense solid element. Like all alkali metals, lithium is highly reactive, corroding quickly in moist air to form a black tarnish. For this reason, lithium metal is typically stored under the cover of petroleum.
Labatt Brewing Company: Labatt Brewing Company Ltd. is a Canadian beer company founded by John Kinder Labatt in 1847 in London, Ontario. In 1995, it was purchased by Belgian brewer Interbrew; it is now part of Anheuser-Busch InBev. Labatt is the largest brewer in Canada.
Leni Riefenstahl: Helene Bertha Amalie "Leni" Riefenstahl (22 August 1902 - 8 September 2003) was a German film director, actress and dancer widely noted for her aesthetics and innovations as a filmmaker. Her most famous film was Triumph des Willens (Triumph of the Will), a propaganda film made at the 1934 Nuremberg congress of the Nazi Party.
Local color: Local color may refer to: Local color (literature) Local Color (film), an award-winning film lead by Trevor Morgan Local color (fine art)
Linear equation: A linear equation is an algebraic equation in which each term is either a constant or the product of a constant and (the first power of) a single variable. Linear equations can have one or more variables. Linear equations occur with great regularity in applied mathematics.
Latitude: Latitude, usually denoted by the Greek letter phi gives the location of a place on Earth (or other planetary body) north or south of the equator. Lines of Latitude are the imaginary horizontal lines shown running east-to-west (or west to east) on maps (particularly so in the Mercator projection) that run either north or south of the equator.
Limousine liberal: Limousine liberal is a pejorative North American political term used to illustrate perceived hypocrisy by a political liberal of upper class or upper middle class status; including calls for the use of mass transit while frequently using limousines or private jets, claiming environmental consciousness but driving low MPG sports cars or SUVs, or ostensibly supporting public education while actually sending their children to private schools.
Lewis and Clark Expedition: The Lewis and Clark Expedition (1804-1806) was the first overland expedition undertaken by the United States to the Pacific coast and back. The expedition team was headed by Meriwether Lewis and William Clark and assisted by Sacajawea and Toussaint Charbonneau. The expedition's goal was to gain an accurate sense of the resources being exchanged in the Louisiana Purchase. The expedition laid much of the groundwork for the westward expansion of the United States.
Liberal: Liberal may refer to:
Trade union: A trade union (or labor/labour union) is an organization of workers who have banded together to achieve common goals like better working conditions. The trade union, through its leadership, bargains with the employer on behalf of union members (rank and file members) and negotiates labor contracts with employers. This may include the negotiation of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, firing and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace safety and policies.
Longitude: Longitude, identified by the Greek letter lambda (), is the geographic coordinate most commonly used in cartography and global navigation for east-west measurement. Constant longitude is represented by lines running from north to south. The line of longitude that passes through the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, in England, establishes the meaning of zero degrees of longitude, or the prime meridian.
Linus Torvalds: Linus Benedict Torvalds is a Finnish software engineer best known for having initiated the development of the Linux kernel and git revision control system. He later became the chief architect of the Linux kernel, and now acts as the project's coordinator.
Lunar Society of Birmingham: The Lunar Society of Birmingham was a dinner club and informal learned society of prominent figures in the Midlands Enlightenment, including industrialists, natural philosophers and intellectuals, who met regularly between 1765 and 1813 in Birmingham, England. At first called the Lunar Circle, "Lunar Society" became the formal name by 1775.
Labor theory of value: The labor theories of value (LTV) are economic theories of value according to which the values of commodities are related to the labor needed to produce them. Various labor theories of value prevailed amongst classical economists, including Adam Smith and David Ricardo, culminating with the socialist theories of Karl Marx. Since then, the concept is most often associated with Marxian economics, while modern mainstream economics replaces it by the marginal utility approach.
Louisiana Purchase: The Louisiana Purchase was the acquisition by the United States of America of 828,800 square miles (2,147,000 km) of the French territory Louisiana in 1803. The U.S. paid 60 million francs plus cancellation of debts worth 18 million francs ($3,750,000), a total cost of 15 million dollars for the Louisiana territory. The Louisiana Purchase encompassed all or part of 14 current U.S. states and two Canadian provinces.
Letter game: A letter game involves the exchange of written letters, or e-mails, between two or more participants. The first player writes a letter in the voice of a newly created character; in this first letter, the writer should establish her own identity and that of her correspondent, should set the scene, and should explain why she and her correspondent must communicate in written fashion.
Law of excluded middle: In logic, The Law of excluded middle, also known as the Principle of excluded middle or Excluded middle is the principle that for any proposition, either that proposition is true, or its negation is. The principle can be expressed in either a logical or a semantical form. The semantical form uses the non-logical word "true", as above.
Lowball: Lowball is an early type of railway signal. It can also refer to: Low-ball, a persuasion technique Lowball (poker), a variant of the card game poker, in which hand values are reversed so that the lowest-valued hand wins Lowball estimate, also known as cost underestimation, the estimation of the lower bound of a venture's cost Lowball glass, a short glass tumbler used for serving certain varieties of alcoholic beverage
Lateral pass: In American football a lateral pass or lateral, officially referred to as a backward pass, and an "onside pass" in Canadian football; is a sideways or rearward throwing of the football. The pass cannot itself advance the ball, though of course the receiver can advance after catching it. This is distinguished from a forward pass, which moves the ball in the direction of the opponent's end zone.
Line of scrimmage: In American and Canadian football a line of scrimmage is an imaginary transverse line crossing the football field across its narrower dimension, beyond which a team cannot cross until the next play has begun. Its location is based on the spot where the ball is placed after the end of the most recent play and following the assessment of any penalty yards. A line of scrimmage is parallel to the goal lines and touches one edge of the ball where it sits on the ground prior to the snap.
Lavender: The lavenders (Lavandula) are a genus of 39 species of flowering plants in the mint family, Lamiaceae, native to the Mediterranean region south to tropical Africa and to the southeast regions of India. The genus includes annuals, herbaceous plants, subshrubs, and small shrubs. The native range extends across the Canary Islands, North and East Africa, Southern Europe and the Mediterranean, Arabia and India.
Lemon balm: Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis), not to be confused with bee balm, Monarda species, is a perennial herb in the mint family Lamiaceae, native to southern Europe and the Mediterranean region. It grows to 70-150 cm tall. The leaves have a gentle lemon scent, related to mint. At the end of the summer, small white flowers full of nectar appear. These attract bees, hence the genus name Melissa (Greek for 'honey bee'). Its flavour comes from the terpenes citronellal, citronellol, citral, and geraniol.
Libya: Libya, officially the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya (Al-Jamhriyyah al-Arabiyyah al-Lbiyyah a-abiyyah al-Itirkiyyah al-Um, also translated as Socialist People's Libyan Arab Great Jamahiriya), is a country located in North Africa. Bordering the Mediterranean Sea to the north, Libya lies between Egypt to the east, Sudan to the southeast, Chad and Niger to the south, and Algeria and Tunisia to the west.
Liliales: Liliales is an order of monocotyledonous flowering plants. This order of necessity includes the family Liliaceae, but both the family and the order have had a widely disputed history, with the circumscription varying greatly from one taxonomist to another. Well known plants from the order include Lilium (lily), tulip, the North American wildflower Trillium, and greenbrier.
Laurales: The Laurales are an order of flowering plants. They are magnoliids, related to the Magnoliales. The order includes about 2500-2800 species from 85-90 genera, which comprise seven families of trees and shrubs. Most of the species are tropical and subtropical, though a few genera reach the temperate zone. The best known species in this order are those of the Lauraceae, and the ornamental shrub Calycanthus of the Calycanthaceae. The earliest lauraceous fossils are from to the early Cretaceous.
Limerick disambiguation: Limerick is a city in the Republic of Ireland. It may also refer to: Limerick (poetry) Limerick (song)
Lamiales: The order Lamiales is a taxon in the asterid group of dicotyledonous flowering plants. It includes approximately 11,000 species divided into about 20 families. Well-known or economically important members of this order include lavender, lilac, olive, jasmine, the ash tree, teak, snapdragon, sesame, psyllium, and a number of table herbs such as mint, basil, and rosemary.
Lee Harvey Oswald: Lee Harvey Oswald (October 18, 1939 - November 24, 1963) was, according to three government investigations, the assassin of U.S. President John F. Kennedy, who was fatally shot on November 22, 1963, in Dallas, Texas. A United States Marine who defected to the Soviet Union and later returned, Oswald was arrested on suspicion of killing Dallas police officer J. D. Tippit and later connected to the assassination of President Kennedy. Oswald denied any responsibility for the murders.
Letterboxing: Letterboxing is an outdoor hobby that combines elements of orienteering, art, and puzzle solving. Letterboxers hide small, weatherproof boxes in publicly-accessible places (like parks) and distribute clues to finding the box in printed catalogs, on one of several web sites, or by word of mouth. Individual letterboxes usually contain a notebook and a rubber stamp.
Legal technicality: The term legal technicality is a casual or colloquial phrase referring to a technical aspect of law. The phrase is not a term of art in the law; it has no exact meaning, nor does it have a legal definition. The words "legal technicality" are often used in a pejorative sense to denote technical aspects of law which result in a legal decision or verdict unfavorable to the party using the phrase.
Lionhead Studios: Lionhead Studios (also known as Microsoft Game Studios Europe) is a British computer game development company led by industry veteran Peter Molyneux, and acquired by Microsoft Game Studios in April 2006. Lionhead started as a breakaway from the developer Bullfrog, which was also founded by Molyneux. Lionhead's first game was Black & White, a god game with elements of artificial life, strategy, and beat 'em up games. Black & White was published by Electronic Arts in 2001.
Leading question: In common law systems that rely on testimony by witnesses, a leading question is a question that suggests the answer or contains the information the examiner is looking for. For example, this question is leading: You were at Duffy's bar on the night of July 15, weren't you? It suggests that the witness was at Duffy's bar on the night in question.
False dilemma: The logical fallacy of false dilemma (also called false dichotomy, the either-or fallacy) involves a situation in which only two alternatives are considered, when in fact there are other options. Closely related are failing to consider a range of options and the tendency to think in extremes, called black-and-white thinking. Strictly speaking, the prefix "di" in "dilemma" means "two".
Lincoln Nebraska: The City of Lincoln is the capital and the second most populous city of the U.S. state of Nebraska. Lincoln is also the county seat of Lancaster County and the home of the University of Nebraska. The population was 225,581 at the 2000 census, however the 2008 estimate puts it at 251,624. Lincoln started out as the village of Lancaster, which was founded in 1856, and became the county seat of the newly created Lancaster County in 1859.
Loaded question: Loaded question, also known as complex question, presupposition, "trick question", or plurium interrogationum (Latin, "of many questions"), is an informal fallacy or logical fallacy. It is committed when someone asks a question that presupposes something that has not been proven or accepted by all the people involved. This fallacy is often used rhetorically, so that the question limits direct replies to be those that serve the questioner's agenda.
Lithuania: Lithuania, officially the Republic of Lithuania is a country in Northern Europe, the southernmost of the three Baltic states. Situated along the southeastern shore of the Baltic Sea, it shares borders with Latvia to the north, Belarus to the southeast, Poland, and the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad to the southwest. Its population is 3.32 million. Its capital and the largest city is Vilnius.
Ignoratio elenchi: Ignoratio elenchi (also known as irrelevant conclusion or irrelevant thesis) is the informal fallacy of presenting an argument that may in itself be valid, but does not address the issue in question. "Ignoratio elenchi" can be roughly translated by ignorance of refutation, that is, ignorance of what a refutation could logically be; "elenchi" (genitive singular of the Latin elenchus) is from the Greek , meaning an argument of disproof or refutation.
Equivocation: Equivocation is classified as both a formal and informal fallacy. It is the misleading use of a term with more than one meaning or sense (by glossing over which meaning is intended at a particular time). It is often confused with amphiboly; however, equivocation is ambiguity arising from the misleading use of a word and amphiboly is ambiguity arising from misleading use of punctuation or syntax.
Sampling bias: In statistics sampling bias is causing some members of the population to be less likely to be included than others. It results in a biased sample, a non-random sample of a population (or non-human factors) in which all participants are not equally balanced or objectively represented. If the bias makes estimation of population parameters impossible, the sample is a non-probability sample. It is also called ascertainment bias.
Slippery slope: In debate or rhetoric, a slippery slope (also the thin end of the wedge, sometimes misstated as thin edge of the wedge, or the camel's nose) is a classical informal fallacy. A slippery slope argument states that a relatively small first step inevitably leads to a chain of related events culminating in some significant impact, much like an object given a small push over the edge of a slope sliding all the way to the bottom.
No true Scotsman: No true Scotsman is a logical fallacy, an ad hoc attempt to retain an unreasoned assertion. When faced with a counterexample to a universal claim, rather than denying the counterexample or rejecting the original universal claim, this fallacy modifies the subject of assertion to tautologically exclude the specific case or others like it. The term was advanced by philosopher Antony Flew in his 1975 book Thinking About Thinking: Do I Sincerely Want to Be Right?.
Leo constellation: Leo is one of the constellations of the zodiac. Its name is Latin for lion. Its symbol is (). Leo lies between dim Cancer to the west and Virgo to the east.
Libra constellation: Libra is a constellation of the zodiac. Its name is Latin for weighing scales, and its symbol is. It is fairly faint, with no first magnitude stars, and lies between Virgo to the west and Scorpius to the east.
Argument from ignorance: The argument from ignorance, also known as argumentum ad ignorantiam ("appeal to ignorance"), or negative evidence, is a logical fallacy in which it is claimed that a premise is true only because it has not been proven false, or is false only because it has not been proven true.
Relativist fallacy: The relativist fallacy, also known as the subjectivist fallacy, is a fallacy committed, roughly speaking, when one person claims that something may be true for one person but not true for someone else. The fallacy is supposed to rest on the law of non-contradiction.
Law of nature: Law of Nature may refer to: Physical law, a scientific generalization based upon empirical observation Natural law, any of a number of doctrines in moral, political and legal theory
Locomotive: A locomotive is a railway vehicle that provides the motive power for a train. The word originates from the Latin loco - "from a place", ablative of locus, "place" + Medieval Latin motivus, "causing motion", and is a shortened form of the term locomotive engine, first used in the early 19th century to distinguish between mobile and stationary steam engines. A locomotive has no payload capacity of its own, and its sole purpose is to move the train along the tracks.
Roxen: Roxen is a medium-sized lake in south central Sweden, east of lake Vtern, part of the waterpath Motala str and the Ga Canal. South of lake Roxen is the city Linking. Roxen, especially the western parts, is very good for bird watching. There are natural reserves at Kungsbro and Svartynningen.
Lysator: Lysator is an academic computer club at Linking University, Sweden with roughly 500 members. Lysator was founded 29 March 1973. Lysator put up the first web server in Sweden in February 1993, among the first 10-15 in the world. Projects hosted by Lysator: Project Runeberg LysKOM Elfwood SvenskMud NannyMUD Historical Projects: The first computer used at Lysator was a Datasaab D21. It was delivered to Lysator 25 May 1973. Lys-16, a microcomputer developed and initially built by Lysator.
Lars Magnus Ericsson: Lars Magnus Ericsson (May 5, 1846 - December 17, 1926) was a Swedish inventor, entrepreneur and founder of telephone equipment manufacturer Ericsson (incorporated as Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson). Lars Magnus was born in Vmskog, Vmland and grew up in the small village of Vegerbol, between Karlstad and Arvika. At the age of twelve his father died, and he had to start working as a miner. He worked until he had money enough to leave the village and move to Stockholm in 1867.
Latin hip hop: Latin rap is not a homogeneous musical style but rather a term that covers all Hip-Hop music recorded by artists of Latino origin.
Lighthouse: A lighthouse is a tower, building, or framework designed to emit light from a system of lamps and lenses or, in older times, from a fire and used as an aid to navigation and to pilots at sea or on inland waterways. Lighthouses are used to mark dangerous coastlines, hazardous shoals and reefs, and safe entries to harbors and can also assist in aerial navigation.
Library of Alexandria: The Royal Library of Alexandria, or Ancient Library of Alexandria, in Alexandria, Egypt, was probably the largest, and certainly the most famous, of the libraries of the ancient world. It flourished under the patronage of the Ptolemaic dynasty, and functioned as a major center of scholarship, at least until the time of Rome's conquest of Egypt, and probably for many centuries thereafter.
Library: A library is a collection of sources, resources, and services, and the structure in which it is housed; it is organized for use and maintained by a public body, an institution, or a private individual. In the more traditional sense, a library is a collection of books. It can mean the collection, the building or room that houses such a collection, or both.
Lighthouse of Alexandria: The Lighthouse of Alexandria was a tower built in the 3rd century BC (between 285 and 247 BC) on the island of Pharos in Alexandria, Egypt, to serve as that port's landmark, and later, its lighthouse. With a height variously estimated at between 115 and 135 m (377 and 443 ft) it was identified as one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World by Antipater of Sidon. It may have been the world's tallest building in its time.
Local area network: A local area network (LAN) is a computer network covering a small physical area, like a home, office, or small group of buildings, such as a school, or an airport. The defining characteristics of LANs, in contrast to wide-area networks (WANs), include their usually higher data-transfer rates, smaller geographic area, and lack of a need for leased telecommunication lines. ARCNET, Token Ring and many other technologies have been used in the past, and G.
Latin: Latin is an Italic language originally spoken in Latium and Ancient Rome. With the Roman conquest, Latin was spread to countries around the Mediterranean, including a large part of Europe. Romance languages such as Aragonese, Corsican, Catalan, French, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian, Sardinian, Spanish and others, are descended from Latin, while many others, especially European languages, have inherited and acquired much of their vocabulary from it.
Li ge disambiguation: Lie is a municipality and a city of Belgium. The term Lie or Liege may also refer to: Liege, a party to the oath of allegiance in feudalism (unrelated to the city).
Line Islands: The Line Islands, or Equatorial Islands, is a chain of eleven atolls and low coral islands in the central Pacific Ocean, south of the Hawaiian Islands that stretches for 2,350 km in a northwest-southeast direction, making it one of the longest islands chains of the world. Eight of the islands form part of Kiribati, while the remaining three are United States territories grouped with the United States Minor Outlying Islands.
Louis Pasteur: Louis Pasteur (December 27, 1822 - September 28, 1895) was a French chemist and microbiologist born in Dole. He is remembered for his remarkable breakthroughs in the causes and preventions of disease. His discoveries reduced mortality from puerperal fever, and he created the first vaccine for rabies. His experiments supported the germ theory of disease.
Lanthanum: Lanthanum is a chemical element with the symbol La and atomic number 57. Lanthanum is a silvery white metallic element that belongs to group 3 of the periodic table and is a lanthanoid. It is found in some rare-earth minerals, usually in combination with cerium and other rare earth elements. Lanthanum is malleable, ductile, and soft metal, which oxidizes rapidly when exposed to air. It is produced from minerals monazite and bastnite using a complex multistage extraction process.
West Low German: West Low German (also known as Low Saxon, or Plattdeutsch in German) is a group of Low German dialects spoken in the Northwest German states of Lower Saxony, North Rhine-Westphalia, Bremen, Hamburg, Schleswig-Holstein and Saxony-Anhalt (western areas), in the northeast of the Netherlands and by a minority in the southernmost part of Denmark. Together with East Low German it forms Low German.
Ludwig Wittgenstein: Ludwig Josef Johann Wittgenstein (26 April 1889 - 29 April 1951) was an Austrian-British philosopher who primarily worked on the topics of logic, mathematics, the mind, and language. Described by Bertrand Russell as "the most perfect example I have ever known of genius as traditionally conceived, passionate, profound, intense, and dominating," Wittgenstein is considered by many to be the greatest philosopher of the 20th century.
Lutetium: Lutetium is a chemical element with the symbol Lu and atomic number 71. It is in the d-block of the periodic table, not the f-block, but the IUPAC classifies it as a lanthanide. It is one of the elements that traditionally were included in the classification, "rare earths". One of its radioactive isotopes (Lu) is used in nuclear technology to determine the age of meteorites.
Lawrencium: Lawrencium is a radioactive synthetic element with the symbol Lr (formerly Lw) and atomic number 103. Its most stable known isotope is Lr, with a half-life of approximately 3.6 hours. Little is known of the chemistry but there is strong evidence for the formation of a trivalent ion in aqueous solution, confirming lawrencium's place as the final member of the actinide elements.
Limestone: Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed largely of the mineral calcite. Like most other sedimentary rocks, limestones are composed of grains, however, around 80-90% of limestone grains are skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral or foraminifera. Other carbonate grains comprising limestones are ooids, peloids, intraclasts, and extraclasts. Some limestones do not consist of grains at all and are formed completely by the chemical precipitation of calcite or aragonite. i.e.
Laos: Laos, officially the Lao People's Democratic Republic, is a landlocked country in Southeast Asia, bordered by Burma and People's Republic of China to the northwest, Vietnam to the east, Cambodia to the south and Thailand to the west. Laos traces its history to the Kingdom of Lan Xang or Land of a Million Elephants, which existed from the 14th to the 18th century. After a period as a French protectorate, it gained independence in 1949.
Lead: Lead is a main-group element with symbol Pb and atomic number 82. Lead is a soft, malleable poor metal, also considered to be one of the heavy metals. Lead has a bluish-white color when freshly cut, but tarnishes to a dull grayish color when exposed to air. It has a shiny chrome-silver luster when melted into a liquid. Lead is used in building construction, lead-acid batteries, bullets and shot, weights, and is part of solder, pewter, fusible alloys and radiation shields.
Geography of Laos: Laos is a landlocked nation in Southeast Asia, northeast of Thailand, west of Vietnam, that covers 236,800 square kilometers in the center of the Southeast Asian peninsula, is surrounded by Burma (Myanmar), Cambodia, the People's Republic of China, Thailand, and Vietnam. Its location has often made it a buffer between more powerful neighboring states, as well as a crossroads for trade and communication.
L beck: The Hanseatic City of Lbeck is the second largest city in Schleswig-Holstein, in northern Germany, and one of the major ports of Germany. It was for several centuries the "capital" of the Hanseatic League ("Queen of the Hanse") and because of its Brick Gothic architectural heritage is on UNESCO's list of World Heritage Sites. In 2005 it had a population of 213,983. Situated at the Trave River, Lbeck is the largest German port on the Baltic Sea.
History of Laos: The official History of Laos as introduced in government textbooks, is conventionally traced to the establishment of the kingdom of Lan Xang by Fa Ngum in 1353. This is a relatively conservative date to begin the history of the nation, providing a contrast to the course taken by Thai historiography (which reaches back implausibly far into proto-history).
Demographics of Laos: Population: 6,834,942 (July 2009 est. ) Age structure: 0-14 years: 40.8% (male 1,400,126/female 1,386,480) 15-64 years: 56.1% (male 1,898,995/female 1,936,892) 65 years and over: 3.1% (male 92,070/female 120,379) (2009 est. ) Population growth rate: 2.316% (2009 est. ) Birth rate: 33.94 births/1,000 population (2009 est. ) Death rate: 10.76 deaths/1,000 population (2009 est. ) Net migration rate: 0 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2000 est.
Politics of Laos: The politics of Laos takes place in the framework of a single-party socialist republic. The only legal political party is the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP). The head of state is President Choummaly Sayasone, who also is secretary-general (leader) of the LPRP. The head of government is Prime Minister Bouasone Bouphavanh. Government policies are determined by the party through the all-powerful nine-member Politburo and the 49-member Central Committee.
Transport in Laos: This article concerns systems of transportation in Laos. Laos is a country in Asia, which possesses a number of modern transportation systems, including several highways and a number of airports. As a landlocked country, Laos possesses no ports or harbours on the sea, and the difficulty of navigation on the Mekong means that this is also not a significant transport route.
Economy of Laos: GDP: purchasing power parity - $12.65 billion (2007 est. ) GDP - real growth rate: 7.5% (2007 est. ) GDP - per capita: purchasing power parity - $1,300 (1999 est. ) GDP - composition by sector: agriculture: 41.3% industry: 32.2% services: 26.5% (2007 est. ) Population below poverty line: 30.7% (2005 est. ) Household income or consumption by percentage share: lowest 10%: 3.4% highest 10%: 28.5% (2002) Inflation rate (consumer prices): 4.5% (2007 est. ) Labor force: 2.1 million (2006 est.
Military of Laos: The Lao People's Army, is the name of the armed forces of Laos, who are charged with protecting the country. Until 1975, the Royal Laos Army were the armed forces of the Laos, along with the Royal Lao Air Force and the Royal Lao Navy. Laos is one of the world's least developed countries and the Lao People's Armed Forces are small, poorly funded, and ineffectively resourced. Most of their equipment date back to the Soviet era.
Foreign relations of Laos: The foreign relations of Laos, after the takeover by the Pathet Lao in December 1975, were characterized by a hostile posture toward the West, with the government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic aligning itself with the Soviet bloc, maintaining close ties with the Soviet Union and depending heavily on the Soviets for most of its foreign assistance.
History of Latvia: The history of Latvia began when the area which is today Latvia was settled following the end of the last glacial period, around 9,000 BC. Ancient Baltic peoples appeared during the second millennium BC and four distinct tribal realms in Latvia's territories were identifiable towards the end of the first millennium AD.
Demographics of Latvia: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the historical territory of Latvia, including population density, ethnic background, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Latvia: The politics of Latvia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. The President holds a primarily ceremonial role as Head of State. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament, the Saeima. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Economy of Latvia: Until the middle of 2008 Latvia had the fastest developing economy in Europe. In 2003, GDP growth was 7.5% and inflation was 2.9%. Unemployment was 9% in 2003 - 2005, however in 2009 it rose too 23% and is highest in the European Union. Privatization is mostly complete, except for some of the large state-owned utilities. On May 1, 2004, Latvia joined the European Union.
Telecommunications in Latvia: Telephones - main lines in use: around 644,000 (2007). Telephones - mobile cellular: over 2,217,000 (2007) Telephone system: recent efforts focused on bringing competition to the telecommunications sector; the number of fixed lines is decreasing as wireless telephone service expands. Domestic: number of telecommunications operators has grown rapidly since the fixed-line market opened to competition in 2003; combined fixed-line and mobile-cellular subscribership is roughly 125 per 100 persons.
Geography of Latvia: Geographic coordinates: Latvia lies on the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea on the level northwestern part of the rising East European platform, between Estonia and Lithuania. About 98% of the country lies under 200 m (656 ft) elevation. The damp climate resembles New England's. With the exception of the coastal plains, the ice age divided Latvia into three main regions: the morainic Western and Eastern uplands and the Middle lowlands.
Military of Latvia: National Armed Forces are the unified armed forces of the Republic of Latvia. Latvia's defense concept is based upon the Swedish - Finnish model of a rapid response force composed of a mobilization base and a small group of career professionals. The National Armed Forces consists of Land Forces, Naval Forces, Air Force, National Guard and others. Latvia has switched to a professional army, the last draft was in 2005. From January 1, 2007, the Latvian army is fully contract-based.
Transport in Latvia: total: 2,347 km Russian gauge: 2,314 km 1,520 mm (4 ft 11+6 in) gauge (270 km electrified) narrow gauge: 33 km 750 mm (2 ft 5+2 in) gauge (2002)
History of Lebanon: The history of Lebanon is almost as old as the earliest evidence of humankind. Its geographic position as a crossroads linking the Mediterranean Basin with the great Asian hinterland has conferred on it a cosmopolitan character and a multicultural legacy. At different periods of its history, Lebanon has come under the domination of foreign rulers, including Assyrians, Babylonians, Armenians, Persians, Greeks, Romans, Arabs, Ottomans, French and Syrians.
Geography of Lebanon: Lebanon stretches along the east side of the Mediterranean Sea, its length almost three times its width. As it stretches from North to South, the width of its terrain becomes narrower. Lebanon's mountainous terrain, proximity to the sea, and strategic location at a crossroads of the world were decisive factors in shaping its history.
Demographics of Lebanon: About 91% of the population of Lebanon includes numerous Christian and Muslim sects. Because the matter of religious balance is a sensitive political issue, a national census has not been conducted since 1932, before the founding of the modern Lebanese state. Consequently there is an absence of accurate data on the relative percentages of the population of the major religions and groups.
Politics of Lebanon: Lebanon is a parliamentary democracy within the overall framework of Confessionalism, a form of consociationalism in which the highest offices are proportionately reserved for representatives from certain religious communities. The constitution grants the people the right to change their government. However, from the mid-1970s until the parliamentary elections in 1992, civil war precluded the exercise of political rights.
Economy of Lebanon: Lebanon's economy and markets are best described at the dawn of the new millennium by a private and liberal economic activity and an openness to abroad with perfect capital and labor mobility. The private sector contributes to around 75% of aggregate demand, a well-diversified sector that covers the totality of economic sectors and is a major pillar for growth and recovery.
Lebanon: Lebanon, officially the Republic of Lebanon, is a country in Western Asia, on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea. It is bordered by Syria to the north and east and Israel to the south. Lebanon's location at the crossroads of the Mediterranean Basin and the Arabian hinterland has dictated its rich history, and shaped its cultural identity of religious and ethnic diversity. The earliest evidence of civilization in Lebanon dates back more than 7,000 yearspredating recorded history.
Transport in Lebanon: Transportation in Lebanon varies greatly in quality from the ultra modern Beirut International Airport to poor road conditions in many parts of the country. The Lebanese civil war between 1990 and 1975 severely impacted the country's infrastructure.
Telecommunications in Lebanon: This article concerns the systems of communication in Lebanon. Lebanon possesses a number of systems of telecommunication, some of which are currently being reconstructed following damage during the civil war. The country code and top-level domain for Lebanon is "LB".
Foreign relations of Lebanon: The foreign policy of Lebanon reflects its geographic location, the composition of its population, and its reliance on commerce and trade. Until 2005, Lebanon's foreign policy had been heavily influenced by Syria. The framework for relations was first codified in May 1991, when Lebanon and Syria signed a treaty of mutual cooperation.
Lebanese Armed Forces: The Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) is the military of the Republic of Lebanon. It consists of three branches, the army, the air force and the navy. The motto of the Lebanese Armed Forces is "Honor, Sacrifice, Loyalty" . The Lebanese Armed Forces Emblem consists of a Lebanon Cedar tree surrounded by two laurel leaves, positioned above the symbols of the three branches: the ground forces represented by the two swords, the navy represented by an anchor, and the air force represented by two wings.
History of Lesotho: The area now known as Lesotho goes back as many as 40,000 years. The present Lesotho (then called Basutoland) emerged as a single polity under paramount chief Moshoeshoe I in 1822. Under Mashoeshoe I, Basutoland joined other tribes in their struggle against the Mfecane associated with the reign of Shaka Zulu from 1818 to 1828. Subsequent evolution of the state was shaped by contact with the British and Dutch colonists from Cape Colony.
Demographics of Lesotho: The Demographics of Lesotho describe the condition and overview of Lesotho's peoples. Demographic topics include basic education, health, and population statistics as well as identified racial and religious affiliations.
Politics of Lesotho: Politics of Lesotho takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic constitutional monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Lesotho is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of Parliament, the Senate and the National Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Economy of Lesotho: The Economy of Lesotho is based on agriculture, livestock, manufacturing, and the earnings of laborers employed in South Africa. Lesotho is geographically surrounded by South Africa and economically integrated with it as well. The majority of households subsist on farming or migrant labor, primarily miners in South Africa for 3 to 9 months. The western lowlands form the main agricultural zone.
Lesotho: Lesotho, officially the Kingdom of Lesotho, is a landlocked country and enclaveentirely surrounded by the Republic of South Africa. It is just over 30,000 km (11,583 sq mi) in size with an estimated population of almost 1,800,000. Its capital and largest city is Maseru. Lesotho is the southernmost landlocked country in the world. It is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations. The name "Lesotho" translates roughly into "the land of the people who speak Sesotho".
Telecommunications in Lesotho: Communications in Lesotho.
Geography of Lesotho: Lesotho is a mountainous, landlocked country located in Southern Africa. It is an enclave, completely surrounded by South Africa. The total length of the country's borders is 909 kilometres (565 mi). Lesotho covers an area of around 30,355 square kilometres (11,720 sq mi), of which a negligible percentage is covered with water.
Transport in Lesotho: This article concerns systems of transport in Lesotho. As a landlocked country, Lesotho has no seaports or harbours, but does possess road, air, and limited rail infrastructure.
Military of Lesotho: Military branches: Lesotho Defence Force (LDF; includes Army and Air Wing), Lesotho Mounted Police Service (LMPS) Military manpower - availability: males age 15-49: 526,332 (2002 est. ) Military manpower - fit for military service: males age 15-49: 283,203 (2002 est.
Foreign relations of Lesotho: Lesotho's geographic location makes it extremely vulnerable to political and economic developments in South Africa. It is a member of many regional economic organizations including the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the Southern African Customs Union (SACU). Lesotho also is active in the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, now the African Union, the Non-Aligned Movement, and many other international organizations.
Geography of Liberia: Liberia is a large Sub-Saharan nation in West Africa located at 6 , 9 .
Demographics of Liberia: The demographics of Liberia Liberia's history as a place set up in 1821 as a colony for free slaves from the United States. The noun for a person from Liberia is Liberian(s). The adjective is Liberian. Despite the recent war's divisions along ethnic lines, Liberia remains a multiethnic and multicultural country. Diversity has always been celebrated in Liberian culture, cuisine, music, fashion, language and people themselves. This diversity has often been overlooked in post war years.
Politics of Liberia: Politics of Liberia takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic modeled on the government of the United States, whereby the President is the head of state and head of government; unlike the United States, however, Liberia is a unitary state as opposed to a federation and has a pluriform multi-party system rather than the two-party system that characterizes US politics. Executive power is exercised by the government.
History of Liberia: Liberia was set up by citizens of the United States as a colony for former African-American slaves. There is only one other state in the world that is started by citizens of a political power as a settlement for former slaves from the same political power: Sierra Leone, begun for that same purpose by Britain.
Economy of Liberia: The Liberian Civil War in 1989-96 destroyed much of Liberia's economy, especially the infrastructure in and around Monrovia. Many businessmen fled the country, taking capital and expertise with them. Some returned during 1997. Many will not return. Richly endowed with water, mineral resources, forests, and a climate favorable to agriculture, Liberia had been a producer and exporter of basic products, while local manufacturing, mainly foreign owned, had been small in scope.
Liberia: Liberia /lari/, officially the Republic of Liberia, is a country on the west coast of Africa, bordered by Sierra Leone, Guinea, Ce d'Ivoire, and the Atlantic Ocean. As of the 2008 Census, the nation is home to 3,476,608 people and covers 111,369 square kilometres (43,000 sq mi). Liberia's capital is Monrovia. Liberia has a hot equatorial climate with most rainfall arriving in summer with harsh harmattan winds in the dry season.
Communications in Liberia: Communications in Liberia are as follows:
Transport in Liberia: Transport in Liberia is as follows:
Geography of Libya: Geographic coordinates:
Foreign relations of Liberia: Liberian foreign relations were traditionally stable and cordial throughout much of the 19th and 20th centuries. During the 1990s, Charles Taylor's presidency and the Liberian Civil War underscored Liberian relations with the Western world, the People's Republic of China, and its neighboring countries in Western Africa. Stabilization in the 21st century brought a return to cordial relations with neighboring countries and much of the Western world.
Demographics of Libya: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Libya, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Libya has a small population residing in a large land area. Population density is about 50 persons per km (80/sq. mi. ) in the two northern regions of Tripolitania and Cyrenaica, but falls to less than one person per km (1.6/sq. mi. ) elsewhere.
Armed Forces of Liberia: The Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL) was constituted in 1962 from the original Liberian military that had been established in 1908 as the Liberian Frontier Force. For virtually all of its history, the AFL has received considerable materiel and training assistance from the United States. For most of the 1941-89 period, training was largely provided by U.S. advisors.
Politics of Libya: Politics of Libya takes place in a framework of a dual government structure in Libya. The "revolutionary sector" comprises Revolutionary Leader Muammar al-Qadhafi, the Revolutionary Committees, and the remaining members of the 12-person Revolutionary Command Council, which was established in 1969. The historical revolutionary leadership is not elected and cannot be voted out of office, as they are in power by virtue of their involvement in the revolution.
Economy of Libya: Libya's centrally planned economy depends primarily upon revenues from the petroleum sector, which contributes practically all export earnings and over half of GDP. These oil revenues and a small population give Libya one of the highest per capita GDPs in Africa. Since 2000, Libya has recorded favourable growth rates with an estimated 8.1% growth of GDP in 2006.
Communications in Libya: Twelve television stations run by the government.
Military of Libya: The Military of Libya consists of the Libyan Army, Libyan Air Force and Libyan Navy the with other services which include the People's Militia, also the total number of Libyan personnel is estimated at 119,000. Colonel Abu-Bakr Yunis Jaber is the chief of the staff of the military. In 2009, it emerged that a British SAS team were training Libyan special forces.
Foreign relations of Libya: Libya's foreign policies have undergone much fluctuation and change since the state declared its independence from Italy on December 24, 1951. In the Muammar al-Gaddafi era, it has been marked by severe tension with the West (especially the United States, although relations were normalized in the early 21st century) and by Gaddafi's activist policies in the Middle East and Africa, including his financial and military support for numerous paramilitary and rebel groups.
Transport in Libya: Libya has had no railway in operation since 1965, all previous narrow gauge lines having been dismantled. Plans for a new network have been under development for some time (earthworks were begun between Sirt and Ras Ejder, Tunisia border, in 2001-5), and in 2008 and 2009 various contracts were placed and construction work started on a 1,435 mm (4 ft 8+2 in) standard gauge railway parallel to the coast from the Tunisian frontier (Ras Ejder) to Tripoli, and on to Misratah, Sirt and Benghazi.
Demographics of Liechtenstein: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Liechtenstein, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Liechtenstein is the fourth smallest country of Europe, after the Vatican City, Monaco, and San Marino.
Politics of Liechtenstein: Politics of Liechtenstein takes place in a framework of a multi-party parliamentary representative democratic monarchy, whereby the Prince is head of state and the Prime Minister is the head of government, though considerable powers are still exercised by the Prince directly. The Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Diet.
Telecommunications in Liechtenstein: This article concerns the systems of communications in Liechtenstein. Liechtenstein possesses a number of modern communications systems, some of which are shared with the neighbouring country, Switzerland. The country code and top-level domain for Liechtenstein is . li.
Economy of Liechtenstein: Despite its small size and limited natural resources, Liechtenstein has developed into a prosperous, highly industrialized, free-enterprise economy with a vital financial service sector and living standards on a par with the urban areas of its large European neighbors. Low business taxes - the maximum tax rate is 18% - and easy incorporation rules have induced about 73,700 holding or so-called letter box companies to establish nominal offices in Liechtenstein, providing 30% of state revenues.
Foreign relations of Liechtenstein: Liechtenstein's foreign economic policy has been dominated by its customs union with Switzerland. This union also led to its independent membership in the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) in 1991. Unlike Switzerland however (where citizens rejected membership in a referendum), Liechtenstein is part of the European Economic Area. Liechtenstein was admitted to the United Nations in 1990.
Geography of Lithuania: Geographic coordinates:
Liechtenstein: The Principality of Liechtenstein is a doubly landlocked alpine microstate in Western Europe, bordered by Switzerland to the west and south and by Austria to the east. Its area is just over 160 km (about 61.7 square miles), and it has an estimated population of 35,000. Its capital is Vaduz; the biggest town is Schaan.
History of Lithuania: The history of Lithuania dates back to at least 1009, the first recorded written use of the term. Lithuanians later conquered neighboring lands, finally establishing the Kingdom of Lithuania in the 13th century. The Grand Duchy of Lithuania remained fiercely independent and was notably one of the last areas of Europe to adopt Christianity. In the 15th century, Lithuania became the largest state in Europe, merging into the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth and becoming a formidable power.
Demographics of Lithuania: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Lithuania, including population density, ethnicity, level of education, health, economic status, and religious affiliations.
Telecommunications in Lithuania: This article provides an overview of the communications infrastructure of the country of Lithuania.
Transport in Lithuania: This article provides an overview of the transport infrastructure of Lithuania.
Politics of Lithuania: Politics of Lithuania takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Lithuania is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government, which is headed by the Prime Minister. Federal legislative power is vested in both the government and the unicameral Seimas.
Military of Lithuania: The Lithuanian Armed Forces consist of ~15,000 active personnel (~2,400 of them - civilian) and are supported by 100,000 reserve forces. Conscription has been ended in September 2008. Lithuania's defence system is based on the concept of "total and unconditional defence" mandated by Lithuania's national Security Strategy. The goal of Lithuania's defence policy is to prepare their society for general defence and to integrate Lithuania into Western security and defence structures.
History of Luxembourg: The history of Luxembourg is inherently entwined with the histories of surrounding countries, peoples, and ruling dynasties. Over time, the territory of Luxembourg has been eroded, whilst its ownership has changed repeatedly, and its political independence has grown gradually. Although recorded Luxembourgian history dates back to Roman times, the history of Luxembourg proper is considered to begin in 963.
Foreign relations of Lithuania: Lithuania became a member of the United Nations on September 18, 1991, and is a signatory to a number of its organizations and other international agreements. It is also a member of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, NATO and its adjunct North Atlantic Coordinating Council, the Council of Europe, and the European Union. Lithuania gained membership in the World Trade Organization on May 31, 2001. It also seeks membership in the OECD and other Western organizations.
Demographics of Luxembourg: The following is an overview of the demographics of Luxembourg. Demographic topics include basic statistics, most populous cites, and religious affiliation. The population of Luxembourg as of October 2009 was estimated at 493,500 The people of Luxembourg are called Luxembourgers.
Politics of Luxembourg: Politics of Luxembourg takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Luxembourg is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is under the constitution of 1868, as amended, exercised by the government, by the Grand Duke and the Council of Government (cabinet), which consists of a prime minister and several other ministers.
Economy of Luxembourg: The economy of Luxembourg is largely dependent on the banking, steel, and industrial sectors. Luxembourgers enjoy the second highest per capita gross domestic product in the world (CIA 2007 est. ), behind Qatar. Luxembourg is seen as a diversified industrialized nation, contrasting the oil boom in Qatar, the majority monetary source of that nation.
Telecommunications in Luxembourg: Telephones - main lines in use: 314,700 (1999) Telephones - mobile cellular: 215,741 (2000) Telephone system: highly developed, completely automated and efficient system, mainly buried cables domestic: nationwide cellular telephone system; buried cable international: 3 channels leased on TAT-6 coaxial submarine cable (Europe to North America) Radio broadcast stations: AM 2, FM 9, shortwave 2 (1999) Radios: 285,000 (1997) Television broadcast stations: 5 (1999) Televisions: 285,000 (1998 est.
Geography of Luxembourg: Luxembourg is a small country located in the Low Countries, part of North-West Europe It borders Belgium (148 kilometres) to the west and north, France (73 km) to the south, and Germany (138 km) to the east. Luxembourg is landlocked, separated from the North Sea by Belgium. The topography of the country is divided very clearly between the hilly Oesling of the northern third of the Grand Duchy and the flat Gutland, which occupies the southern two-thirds.
Transport in Luxembourg: Transport in Luxembourg is ensured principally by road, rail and air. There are also services along the River Moselle which forms the border with Germany. The road network has been significantly modernised in recent years with motorways to adjacent countries. The advent of the high-speed TGV link to Paris has led to renovation of the city's railway station while a new passenger terminal at Luxembourg Airport has recently been opened.
Luxembourg Army: The Luxembourg Army is the national military of Luxembourg (the Gendarmerie was merged into the Grand Ducal Police in 2000). It was formerly commanded by a colonel, but as of 2008 is commanded by a General; Luxembourg has no navy (the country is landlocked) or air force, although it does have aircraft. The army has been an all-volunteer force since 1967.
London Underground: The London Underground is a rapid transit system serving a large part of Greater London and neighbouring areas of Essex, Hertfordshire and Buckinghamshire in the UK. With its first section opening in 1863, it was the first underground railway system in the world. In 1890 it became the first to operate electric trains. Despite the name, about 55% of the network is above ground.
Foreign relations of Luxembourg: Luxembourg has long been a prominent supporter of European political and economic integration. In efforts foreshadowing European integration, Luxembourg and Belgium in 1921 formed the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) to create an inter-exchangeable currency and a common customs regime. Luxembourg is a member of the Benelux Economic Union and was one of the founding members of the European Economic Community.
Large Technical System: A Large Technical System (LTS) is a system or network of enormous proportions or complexity. The study of LTSs is a subdiscipline of the History of Science and Technology, and was very popular in the 1990s. The book Rescuing Prometheus by Thomas P. Hughes documents the development of four such systems, including the Boston central artery tunnel and the Internet.
Lund University: Lund University, located in Lund in southernmost Sweden, is one of Sweden's most prestigious universities and one of Scandinavia's largest institutions for education and research, frequently ranked among the world's top 100 universities. The university was founded in 1666 and is the second oldest Swedish university, but can arguably trace its roots back to 1438, when a studium generale was founded in Lund.
Lord Peter Wimsey: Lord Peter Death Bredon Wimsey is a ' sleuth in a series of detective novels and short stories by Dorothy L. Sayers, in which he solves mysteriesusually but not always murders. Wimsey is an archetype for the British gentleman detective. Born in 1890 and aging in real time, Wimsey is described as having at best average height with straw-coloured hair, a beaked nose, and a vaguely foolish face. (Reputedly his looks were patterned after those of academic Roy Ridley).
Lesbian: Lesbian is a term most widely used in the English language to describe sexual and romantic desire between females. The word may be used as a noun, to refer to women who identify themselves or who are characterized by others as having the primary attribute of female homosexuality, or as an adjective, to describe characteristics of an object or activity related to female same-sex desire.
Letter message: A letter is a written message from one party to another. The role of letters in communication has changed significantly since the 19th century. Historically, letters (in paper form) were the only reliable means of communication between two persons in different locations. As [communication] technology has diversified, posted letters have become less important as a routine form of communication; they however still remain but in a modified form.
Lamiaceae: Lamiaceae or Labiatae, also known as the mint family, is a family of plants. It has been considered closely related to Verbenaceae but several recent phylogenetic studies have shown that numerous genera classified in Verbenaceae belong instead in Lamiaceae, whereas the core genera of Verbenaceae are not closely related to Lamiaceae and are more closely related to other members of the Lamiales. The enlarged Lamiaceae family contains 233 to 263 genera and 6900 to 7200 species.
Long shot: In photography, film and video, a long shot (sometimes referred to as a full shot or a wide shot) typically shows the entire object or human figure and is usually intended to place it in some relation to its surroundings. It has been suggested that long-shot ranges usually correspond to approximately what would be the distance between the front row of the audience and the stage in live theatre.
Lambda: Lambda (uppercase , lowercase ; () in classical times. In; the letter itself is pronounced [l] as with Latin L. In early Greek alphabets, the shape and orientation of lambda varied. Most variants consisted of two straight strokes, one longer than the other, connected at their ends. The angle might be in the upper left, lower left ("Western" alphabets), or top ("Eastern" alphabets). Other variants had a vertical line with a horizontal or sloped stroke running to the right.
Logarithm: In mathematics, the logarithm of a number to a given base is the power or exponent to which the base must be raised in order to produce the number. For example, the logarithm of 1000 to base: 10 is 3, because 3 is the power to which ten must be raised to produce 1000: 10 = 1000, so log101000 = 3. Only positive real numbers have real number logarithms, negative and complex numbers have complex logarithms. The logarithm of x to the base b is written logb(x) or, if the base is implicit, as log(x).
L. Ron Hubbard: Lafayette Ronald Hubbard (March 13, 1911 - January 24, 1986) was an American science fiction author who developed a self-help system called Dianetics, which was first published in 1950. Over the following three decades, Hubbard developed his self-help ideas into a wide-ranging set of doctrines and rituals as part of a new religion he called Scientology.
Luddite: The Luddites were a social movement of British textile artisans in the nineteenth century who protested- often by destroying mechanized looms- against the changes produced by the Industrial Revolution, which they felt were leaving them without work and changing their entire way of life. This English historical movement should be seen in the context of the era's harsh economic climate due to the Napoleonic Wars, and the degrading working conditions in the new textile factories.
Lag ri Hasan elebi: Lagari Hasan lebi was an legendary Ottoman Turk who, according to an account written by Evliya lebi, made a successful manned rocket flight.
Letterbox: Letterboxing is the practice of transferring film shot in a widescreen aspect ratio to standard-width video formats while preserving the film's original aspect ratio. The resulting videographic image has mattes (black bars) above and below it; these mattes are part of the image (i.e. , of each frame of the video signal). LTBX is the identifying abbreviation for films and images so formatted.
London: London is the capital of England and the United Kingdom. It is the UK's largest and most populous metropolitan area and the largest urban zone in the European Union by most measures. A major settlement for two millennia, its history goes back to its founding by the Romans, who called it Londinium. London's core, the ancient City of London, the 'square mile' financial district, retains its mediaeval boundaries.
Lincoln: Lincoln commonly refers to: Abraham Lincoln, 16th president of the United States Lincoln, Lincolnshire, England Lincoln (automobile), a luxury brand of the Ford Motor Company Lincoln, Nebraska, the state's capital Lincoln (surname), people with the surname Lincoln Lincoln may also refer to:
Ligament: The study of ligaments is known as desmology (from Greek , desmos, "string"; and -, -logia).
Anarchist communism: Anarchist communism is a theory of anarchism which advocates the abolition of the state, private property, and capitalism in favor of common ownership of the means of production, direct or consensus democracy and a horizontal network of voluntary associations and workers' councils with production and consumption based on the guiding principle: "from each according to ability, to each according to need".
Laser science: Laser science or laser physics is a branch of optics that describes the theory and practice of lasers. Laser science is principally concerned with quantum electronics, laser construction, optical cavity design, the physics of producing a population inversion in laser media, and the temporal evolution of the light field in the laser.
Loch Ness Monster: The Loch Ness Monster is a cryptid that is reputed to inhabit Loch Ness in the Scottish Highlands. The most frequent speculation is that the creature represents a line of long-surviving plesiosaurs. It is similar to other supposed lake monsters in Scotland and elsewhere, though its description varies from one account to the next. Popular interest and belief in the animal has fluctuated since it was brought to the world's attention in 1933.
Lincoln Lincolnshire: Lincoln is a cathedral city and county town of Lincolnshire, England. The non-metropolitan district of Lincoln has a population of 85,595; the 2001 census gave the entire urban area of Lincoln a population of 120,779. The council identifies a 'Greater Lincoln' catchment area covering surrounding villages and towns, which has a population of 250,000. It has several twin towns: Port Lincoln, South Australia; Radomsko, Poland; Tangshan, China; and Neustadt an der Weinstrae, Germany.
Luftwaffe: Luftwaffe (derived from the words "Luft"= air and "Waffe"=weapon) is a generic German term for an air force. It is also the official name for two of the four historic German air forces, the Wehrmacht air arm founded in 1933 and disbanded in 1946; and the current Bundeswehr air arm founded in 1956. Schweizer Luftwaffe is also the name of the Swiss Air Force in German (Forces aiennes suisses in French and Forze Aeree Svizzere in Italian).
Lassa fever: Lassa fever is an acute viral hemorrhagic fever first described in 1969 in the town of Lassa, in Borno State, Nigeria located in the Yedseram river valley at the south end of Lake Chad. Clinical cases of the disease had been known for over a decade earlier but not connected with this viral pathogen. The infection is endemic in West African countries, and causes 300-500,000 cases annually with approximately 5,000 deaths.
Latin disambiguation: Latin is an Italic language, originally spoken in ancient Rome and its empire. Latin can also refer to: Latins (Italic tribe), a people inhabiting ancient Italy Various people throughout history who have been called Latins The Roman or Latin alphabet, which became the basic script used by most European languages Wheelock's Latin, a book that teaches the reader the Latin language "Latin", the fourth movement of Mike Oldfield's Tubular Bells 2003 album "Latin Christianity", i.e.
Library reference desk: The reference desk or information desk of a library is a public service counter where professional librarians provide library users with direction to library materials, advice on library collections and services, and expertise on multiple kinds of information from multiple sources.
Lafora disease: Lafora disease, also called Lafora progressive myoclonic epilepsy, is a fatal autosomal recessive genetic disorder characterized by the presence of inclusion bodies, known as Lafora bodies, within neurons and the cells of the heart, liver, muscle, and skin. Most patients with this disease do not live past the age of twenty-five, and death within ten years of symptoms is usually inevitable At this time there is no cure or treatment for this disease.
Leap year: A leap year (or intercalary year) is a year containing one extra day (or, in the case of lunisolar calendars, a month) in order to keep the calendar year synchronized with the astronomical or seasonal year. For example, in the Gregorian calendar (common calendar), February in a leap year has 29 days instead of the usual 28, so the year lasts 366 days instead of the usual 365.
Leon Trotsky: 'Leon Trotsky, born Lev Davidovich Bronstein, was a Bolshevik revolutionary and Marxist theorist. He was one of the leaders of the Russian October Revolution, second only to Vladimir Lenin. During the early days of the Soviet Union, he served first as People's Commissar for Foreign Affairs and later as the founder and commander of the Red Army and People's Commissar of War. He was also among the first members of the Politburo.
Ludwig Mies van der Rohe: Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, born Maria Ludwig Michael Mies (March 27, 1886 - August 17, 1969) was a German-American architect. He was commonly referred to and addressed by his surname, Mies, by his colleagues, students, writers, and others. Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, along with Walter Gropius and Le Corbusier, is widely regarded as one of the pioneering masters of Modern architecture.
Laundering: Laundering can refer to: Money laundering, disguising the origin of illegally gained wealth Clothes laundering, washing clothes
Le Corbusier: Charles-ouard Jeanneret-Gris, who chose to be known as Le Corbusier (October 6, 1887 - August 27, 1965), was a Swiss-French architect, designer, urbanist, writer and also painter, who is famous for being one of the pioneers of what now is called Modern architecture or the International Style. He was born in Switzerland and became a French citizen in his 30s.
Ludovico Ariosto: Ludovico Ariosto (8 September 1474 - 6 July 1533) was an Italian poet. He is best known as the author of the romance epic Orlando Furioso (1516). The poem, a continuation of Matteo Maria Boiardo's Orlando Innamorato, describes the adventures of Charlemagne, Orlando, and the Franks as they battle against the Saracens with diversions into many side plots. Ariosto composed the poem in the ottava rima rhyme scheme and introduced narratorial commentary throughout the work.
Linear model: In statistics, the term linear model is used in different ways according to the context. The most common occurrence is in connection with regression models and the term is often taken as synonymous with linear regression model. However the term is also used in time series analysis with a different meaning. In each case, the designation "linear" is used to identify a subclass of models for which substantial reduction in the complexity of the related statistical theory is possible.
Leonhard Euler: Leonhard Paul Euler (15 April 1707 - 18 September 1783) was a pioneering in German; the pronunciation /ur/ -lr is incorrect. Euler made important discoveries in fields as diverse as infinitesimal calculus and graph theory. He also introduced much of the modern mathematical terminology and notation, particularly for mathematical analysis, such as the notion of a mathematical function. He is also renowned for his work in mechanics, fluid dynamics, optics, and astronomy.
Linear regression: In statistics, linear regression refers to any approach to modeling the relationship between one or more variables denoted y and one or more variables denoted X, such that the model depends linearly on the unknown parameters to be estimated from the data. Such a model is called a linear model. Most commonly, linear regression refers to a model in which the conditional mean of y given the value of X is an affine function of X.
Likelihood principle: In statistics, the likelihood principle is a controversial principle of statistical inference which asserts that all of the information in a sample is contained in the likelihood function. A likelihood function arises from a conditional probability distribution considered as a function of its distributional parameterization argument, conditioned on the data argument.
Edward Plunkett 18th Baron of Dunsany: Edward John Moreton Drax Plunkett, 18th Baron of Dunsany (24 July 1878 - 25 October 1957) was an Anglo-Irish writer and dramatist, notable for his work, mostly in fantasy, published under the name Lord Dunsany. More than eighty books of his work were published, and his oeuvre includes many hundreds of published short stories, as well as successful plays, novels and essays.
Led Zeppelin: Led Zeppelinwere an English rock band formed in 1968 by Jimmy Page (guitar), Robert Plant, John Paul Jones (bass guitar, keyboards, mandolin), and John Bonham (drums). With their heavy, guitar-driven sound, Led Zeppelin are regularly cited as one of the progenitors of heavy metal and hard rock music. However, the band's individualistic style drew from many sources and transcends any one genre.
Lars von Trier: Lars von Trier (born Lars Trier; April 30, 1956) is a Danish film director and screenwriter. He is closely associated with the Dogme 95 collective, although his own films have taken a variety of different approaches.
Lleyton Hewitt: Lleyton Glynn Hewitt (born 24 February 1981) is a professional tennis player, and a former World No. 1 ranked player, from Australia. In 2000, Hewitt had won ATP titles on all three major surfaces (Hard, Clay and Grass) and reached one final on carpet. By 2001, he became the youngest male ever to be ranked number one, at the age of 20.
Monty Python's Life of Brian: Monty Python's Life of Brian, also known as Life of Brian, is a 1979 comedy film written, directed and largely performed by the Monty Python comedy team. It tells the story of Brian Cohen, a young Jewish man who is born in the same era and location as Jesus Christ, and is subsequently mistaken for the Messiah. The film contains themes of religious satire which were controversial at the time of its release, drawing accusations of blasphemy and protests from some religious groups.
Ludwig van Beethoven: Ludwig van Beethoven (baptised 17 December 1770 - 26 March 1827) was a German composer and pianist. He was a crucial figure in the transitional period between the Classical and Romantic eras in Western classical music, and remains one of the most acclaimed and influential composers of all time.
Leucippus: Leucippus or Leukippos was the first Greek to develop the theory of atomism the idea that everything is composed entirely of various imperishable, indivisible elements called atoms which was elaborated in far greater detail by his pupil and successor, Democritus. He was most probably born in Miletus rather than Abdera. (It is highly unlikely that he was born in Elea, as attributed by Diogenes Laertius and Simplicius of Cilicia .
Loglan: Loglan is a constructed language originally designed for linguistic research, particularly for investigating the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis. The language was developed beginning in 1955 by Dr. James Cooke Brown with the goal of making a language so different from natural languages that people learning it would think in a different way if the hypothesis were true. Loglan is the first among, and the main inspiration for, the languages known as logical languages, which also includes Lojban and Ceqli.
Lomography: Lomography is the commercial trademark of Lomographische AG, Austria for products and services related to photography. The name is inspired by the former state-run optics manufacturer LOMO PLC of Saint Petersburg, Russia. LOMO PLC created and produced the 35 mm LOMO LC-A Compact Automat camera which became the centerpiece of Lomography's marketing and sales activities. This camera was loosely based upon the Cosina CX-1 and introduced in the early 1980s.
League of Nations: The League of Nations (LON) was an inter-governmental organization founded as a result of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919-1920, and the forerunner to the United Nations. At its greatest extent from 28 September 1934 to 23 February 1935, it had 58 members. The League's primary goals as stated in its Covenant included preventing war through collective security, disarmament, and settling international disputes through negotiation and arbitration.
Logic programming: Logic programming is, in its broadest sense, the use of mathematical logic for computer programming. In this view of logic programming, which can be traced at least as far back as John McCarthy's [1958] advice-taker proposal, logic is used as a purely declarative representation language, and a theorem-prover or model-generator is used as the problem-solver.
Lola Graham: Lola Glenn Graham was born in Melbourne, Australia on September 23, 1918. She first came to public attention after winning a musical competition at age six by playing the piano. In 1930 she was employed by Melbourne radio station 3?? and continued to work in radio for most of her life. She also worked extensively in live musical theatre as a band member and accompanist. Her repertoire included working with such artists as Barry Humphries.
Lake Tana: Lake Tana is the source of the Blue Nile and is the largest lake in Ethiopia. Located in the north-western Ethiopian highlands, according to the Statistical Abstract of Ethiopia for 1967/68, the lake is approximately 84 kilometers long and 66 kilometers wide, with a maximum depth of 15 meters, and an elevation of 1,840 meters. Lake Tana is fed by the Lesser Abay, Reb and Gumara Rivers and its surface area ranges from 3,000 to 3,500 km depending on season and rainfall.
Latency engineering: Latency is a measure of time delay experienced in a system, the precise definition of which depends on the system and the time being measured.
History of public transport authorities in London: The history of public transport authorities in London details the various organisations that have been responsible for the public transport network in and around London, England from 1933 until 2000 and have used the London Transport brand. Their responsibilities have encompassed the buses, coaches, trams and the London Underground.
Liquid crystal display: A liquid crystal display (LCD) is a thin, flat panel used for electronically displaying information such as text, images, and moving pictures. Its uses include monitors for computers, televisions, instrument panels, and other devices ranging from aircraft cockpit displays, to every-day consumer devices such as video players, gaming devices, clocks, watches, calculators, and telephones.
Light: Light is electromagnetic radiation, particularly radiation of a wavelength that is visible to the human eye (about 400-700 nm, or perhaps 380-750 nm
Lipid: Lipids are a broad group of naturally-occurring molecules which includes fats, waxes, sterols, fat-soluble vitamins (such as vitamins A, D, E and K), monoglycerides, diglycerides, phospholipids, and others. The main biological functions of lipids include energy storage, as structural components of cell membranes, and as important signaling molecules.
Lie algebra: In mathematics, a Lie algebra is an algebraic structure whose main use is in studying geometric objects such as Lie groups and differentiable manifolds. Lie algebras were introduced to study the concept of infinitesimal transformations. The term "Lie algebra" was introduced by Hermann Weyl in the 1930s. In older texts, the name "infinitesimal group" is used.
Lake Erie: Lake Erie is the fourth largest lake (by surface area) of the five Great Lakes in North America, and the thirteenth largest globally. It is the southernmost, shallowest, and smallest by volume of the Great Lakes and therefore also has the shortest average water residence time. It is bounded on the north by the Canadian province of Ontario, on the south by the U.S. states of Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York, and on the west by the state of Michigan.
Lake Ontario: Lake Ontario is one of the five Great Lakes of North America. The lake is bounded on the north by the Canadian province of Ontario and on the south by Ontario's Niagara Peninsula and by the U.S. state of New York. It has the smallest area of all the Great Lakes and is the only one that does not border Michigan.
Lake Michigan: Lake Michigan is one of the five Great Lakes of North America, and the only one located entirely within the United States. The second largest of the Great Lakes by volume and the third largest of the Great Lakes by surface area, it is bounded, from west to east, by the U.S. states of Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan. The word "Michigan" was originally used to refer to the lake itself, and is believed to come from the Ojibwa Indian word mishigami, meaning "great water.
Fibonacci: Leonardo Pisano Bogollo, (c. 1170 - c. 1250) also known as Leonardo of Pisa, Leonardo Pisano, Leonardo Bonacci, Leonardo Fibonacci, or, most commonly, simply Fibonacci, was an Italian mathematician, considered by some "the most talented western mathematician of the Middle Ages. " Fibonacci is best known to the modern world for: The spreading of the Hindu-Arabic numeral system in Europe, primarily through the publication in the early 13th century of his Book of Calculation, the Liber Abaci.
Lake Superior: Lake Superior is the largest of the five Great Lakes of North America. It is bounded to the north by the Canadian province of Ontario and the U.S. state of Minnesota, and to the south by the U.S. states of Wisconsin and Michigan. It is the largest freshwater lake in the world by surface area and is the world's third-largest freshwater lake by volume.
LimeWire: LimeWire is a free peer-to-peer file sharing (P2P) client for Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, and other operating systems supported by the Java software platform. LimeWire uses the Gnutella network and also the BitTorrent protocol. A free software version and a purchasable "enhanced" version are available. The software is developed by Lime Wire LLC, which is a subsidiary of Lime Group. BitTorrent support is provided by libtorrent.
Least common multiple: In arithmetic and number theory, the least common multiple or lowest common multiple (LCM) or smallest common multiple of two integers a and b is the smallest positive integer that is a multiple of both of a and of b. Since it is a multiple, it can be divided by a and b without a remainder. If either a or b is 0, so that there is no such positive integer, then LCM(a, b) is defined to be zero.
Latveria: Latveria is a fictional nation in the Marvel Comics Universe. It is an isolated European country ruled by the supervillain Doctor Doom, supposedly located in the Banat region. It is surrounded by the Carpathian Mountains, and also borders the fictional Symkaria to the south. Its capital is Doomstadt.
Leipzig: Leipzig is, with a population of 515,459, the largest city in the federal state of Saxony, Germany. It was after East Berlin the largest city in East Germany before German reunification.
List of literary cycles: Literary cycles are groups of stories grouped around common figures, often (though not necessarily) based on mythical figures or loosely on historic ones. Cycles which deal with an entire country are sometimes referred to as matters. A fictional cycle is often referred to as a mythos.
Louis St. Laurent: Louis Stephen St. Laurent, PC, CC, QC (Saint-Laurent or St-Laurent in French, baptized Louis-ienne St-Laurent), (February 1, 1882 - July 25, 1973) was the 12th Prime Minister of Canada from November 15, 1948, to June 21, 1957.
Liar paradox: In philosophy and logic, the liar paradox, known to the ancients as the pseudomenon, encompasses paradoxical statements such as "This sentence is false. " or "The next sentence is false. The previous sentence is true. " These statements are paradoxical because there is no way to assign them a consistent classical binary truth value. If "This sentence is false" is true, then it is true and what it says is the case; but what it says is that it is false, hence it is false.
Louis Leakey: Louis Seymour Bazett Leakey (L.S.B. Leakey) (August 7, 1903 - October 1, 1972) was a Kenyan archaeologist and naturalist whose work was important in establishing human evolutionary development in Africa. He also played a major role in creating organizations for future research in Africa and for protecting wildlife there.
Louch bem: Louchem or loucherbem is Parisian and Lyonnaise butchers' slang, similar to Pig Latin and Verlan. It originated in the mid-19th century. Each word is transformed by moving the first consonant to the end; and suffixes such as -e, -ji, -oc, -muche are added at the end; the letter "L" is placed at the beginning of the new word. Note that spelling often becomes phoneticised.
Leon M. Lederman: Leon Max Lederman (born July 15, 1922) is an American experimental physicist and Nobel Prize in Physics laureate for his work with neutrinos. He is Director Emeritus of Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory (Fermilab) in Batavia, Illinois, USA. He founded the Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy, in Aurora, Illinois in 1986, and has served in the capacity of Resident Scholar since 1998.
Louis the Pious: Louis the Pious (778 - 20 June 840), also called the Fair, and the Debonaire, was the King of Aquitaine from 781. He was also King of the Franks and co-Emperor (as Louis I) with his father, Charlemagne, from 813. As the only surviving adult son of Charlemagne, he became the sole ruler of the Franks after his father's death in 814, a position which he held until his death, save for the period 833-34, during which he was deposed.
Lie group: Lie groups File:E8PetrieFull.
LCD disambiguation: LCD may refer to: LCD (music act), a performance group Liquid crystal display, an electronic device Lesotho Congress for Democracy, a political party Lord Chancellor's Department, an English government department Lowest common denominator, a mathematical feature Low-carbohydrate diet, a food regimen Loudest Common Denominator, an album by Drowning Pool Lacida, a cryptograph Lattice corneal dystrophy type I
Long gun: The term long gun is used to describe classes of firearm and cannon with longer barrels than other classes. In small arms, a long gun is designed to be fired braced against the shoulder, in contrast to a handgun, while in artillery a long gun would be contrasted with a howitzer or carronade.
Liquid crystal: Liquid crystals (LCs) are a state of matter that has properties between those of a conventional liquid and those of a solid crystal. For instance, an LC may flow like a liquid, but its molecules may be oriented in a crystal-like way. There are many different types of LC phases, which can be distinguished by their different optical properties. When viewed under a microscope using a polarized light source, different liquid crystal phases will appear to have distinct textures.
Law of definite proportions: In chemistry, the law of definite proportions and also the elements states that a chemical compound always contains exactly the same proportion of elements by mass. An equivalent statement is the law of constant composition, which states that all samples of a given chemical compound have the same elemental composition. For example, oxygen makes up /9 of the mass of any sample of pure water, while hydrogen makes up the remaining /9 of the mass.
Limbo: In Catholic theology, Limbo (Latin ', edge or boundary, referring to the "edge" of Hell) is a speculative idea about the afterlife condition of those who die in original sin without being assigned to the Hell of the damned. Limbo is not an official doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church or any other. Medieval theologians described the underworld as divided into four distinct parts: hell of the damned (which some call gehenna), purgatory, limbo of the fathers, and limbo of infants.
Laurence Sterne: Laurence Sterne (November 24, 1713 - March 18, 1768) was an Irish-born English novelist and an Anglican clergyman. He is best known for his novels The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman, and A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy; but he also published many sermons, wrote memoirs, and was involved in local politics. Sterne died in London after years of fighting consumption.
Lethe: In Greek mythology, Lethe was one of the five rivers of Hades. Also known as the Ameles potamos (river of unmindfulness), the Lethe flowed around the cave of Hypnos and through the Underworld, where all those who drank from it experienced complete forgetfulness. Lethe was also the name of the Greek spirit of forgetfulness and oblivion, with whom the river was often identified. In Classical Greek, the word Lethe literally means "oblivion," "forgetfulness," or "concealment".
Linear A: Linear A is one of two linear and possibly syllabic scripts used in ancient Crete before Mycenaean Greek Linear B. In Minoan times, before the Mycenaean Greek dominion, Linear A was the official script for the palaces and cults and Cretan Hieroglyphs were mainly used on seals. These three scripts were discovered and named by Arthur Evans. In 1952, Michael Ventris discovered that Linear B was being used to write the early form of Greek now known as Mycenaean.
LucasArts: LucasArts Entertainment Company LLC is an American video game developer and publisher. The company was famous for its innovative line of graphic adventure games, the critical and commercial success of which peaked in the mid 1990s. Today, it publishes games primarily based on the Star Wars franchise.
Learning theory education: In psychology and education, learning is commonly defined as a process that brings together cognitive, emotional, and environmental influences and experiences for acquiring, enhancing, or making changes in one's knowledge, skills, values, and world views (Illeris, 2000; Ormorod, 1995). Learning as a process focuses on what happens when the learning takes place. Explanations of what happens constitute learning theories.
Long-term memory: Long-term memory (LTM) is memory that can last as little as a few days or as long as decades. It differs structurally and functionally from working memory or short-term memory, which ostensibly stores items for only around 18 seconds (Peterson and Peterson, 1959). Biologically, short-term memory is a temporary potentiation of neural connections that can become long-term memory through the process of rehearsal and meaningful association.
List of Latin words with English derivatives: This is a list of Latin words with derivatives in English (and other modern languages). Ancient orthography did not distinguish between i and j or between u and v. Many modern works distinguish u from v but not i from j. In this article both distinctions are shown as they are helpful when tracing the origin of English words. See also Latin spelling and pronunciation.
List of Latin phrases: This page lists direct English translations of common Latin phrases, such as veni vidi vici and et cetera. Some of the phrases are themselves translations of Greek phrases, as Greek rhetoric and literature were highly regarded in ancient Rome when Latin rhetoric and literature were still maturing. Be aware that the Latin letter i can be used as either a vowel or a consonant.
Latin declension: Latin is an inflected language, and as such has nouns, pronouns, and adjectives that must be declined in order to serve a grammatical function. A set of declined forms of the same word pattern is called a declension. There are five declensions, which are numbered and grouped by ending and grammatical gender. For simple declension paradigms, visit the Wiktionary appendices:,,,, .
Lafcadio Hearn: Patrick Lafcadio Hearn (27 June 1850 - 26 September 1904), also known as Koizumi Yakumo after gaining Japanese citizenship, was an author, best known for his books about Japan. He is especially well-known for his collections of Japanese legends and ghost stories, such as '.
Latin conjugation: Conjugation is the creation of derived forms of a verb from basic forms or principal parts. It may be affected by person, number, gender, tense, mood, voice or other language-specific factors. When, for example, we use a verb to function as the action done by a subject, most languages require conjugating the verb to reflect that meaning. (For more information on conjugation in general, see the article on grammatical conjugation.
Louisa May Alcott: Louisa May Alcott (November 29, 1832 - March 6, 1888) was an American novelist. She is best known for the novel Little Women, set in the Alcott family home, Orchard House in Concord, Massachusetts, and published in 1868. This novel is loosely based on her childhood experiences with her three sisters.
LALR parser: An LALR parser is a type of parser defined in computer science as a Look-Ahead LR parser. LALR parsers are based on a finite-state-automata concept, from which they derive their speed. The data structure used by an LALR parser is a pushdown automaton (PDA). A deterministic PDA is a deterministic-finite automaton (DFA) that uses a stack for a memory, indicating which states the parser has passed through to arrive at the current state.
Latin spelling and pronunciation: Latin spelling or orthography refers to the spelling of Latin words written in the scripts of all historical phases of Latin from Old Latin to the present. They all use some phase of the same alphabet even though conventional spellings may vary from phase to phase. The Roman alphabet, or Latin alphabet, was adapted from the Old Italic alphabet to represent the phonemes of the Latin language.
Language center: The term language center (or more accurately centers, e.g. Broca's area and Wernicke's area) refers to the areas of the brain which serve a particular function for speech processing and production.
Lift force: A fluid flowing past the surface of a body exerts a force on it. Lift is defined to be the component of this force that is perpendicular to the flow direction. It contrasts with the drag force, which is defined to be the component of the fluid-dynamic force parallel to the flow direction.
Leo III the Isaurian: Leo III the Isaurian or the Syrian, (c. 685-June 18 741) was Byzantine emperor from 717 until his death in 741. He put an end to a period of instability, successfully defended the empire against the invading Umayyads, and forbade the veneration of icons.
Lombards: The Lombards (Latin Langobardi, whence the alternative names Langobards and Longobards) were a Germanic people originally from Northern Europe who settled in the valley of the Danube and from there invaded Byzantine Italy in 568 under the leadership of Alboin. They established a Lombard Kingdom, later named Kingdom of Italy, which lasted until 774, when it was conquered by the Franks. Their influence on Italian political geography is apparent in the regional appellation Lombardy.
Limit: A limit can be: Limit (mathematics): Limit of a function Limit of a sequence One-sided limit Limit superior and limit inferior Limit of a net Limit point Limit (category theory) Direct limit A constraint (mathematical, physical, economical, legal, etc.
List of logarithmic identities: In mathematics, there are several logarithmic identities.
Loki: In Norse mythology, Loki is a god or junn (or both). Loki's relation with the gods varies by source. Loki assists the gods, and sometimes causes problems for them. Loki is a shape shifter and in separate incidents he appears in the form of a salmon and a mare. Loki's positive relations with the gods ends with his role in engineering the death of the god Baldr. Loki is eventually bound by the gods with the entrails of one of his sons.
Lisp programming language: Lisp (or LISP) is a family of computer programming languages with a long history and a distinctive, fully parenthesized syntax. Originally specified in 1958, Lisp is the second-oldest high-level programming language in widespread use today; only Fortran is older. Like Fortran, Lisp has changed a great deal since its early days, and a number of dialects have existed over its history. Today, the most widely known general-purpose Lisp dialects are Common Lisp and Scheme.
Louis Agassiz: Jean Louis Rodolphe Agassiz (May 28, 1807 - December 14, 1873) was a paleontologist, glaciologist, and geologist, and was a prominent innovator in the study of the Earth's natural history. He grew up in Switzerland and became a professor of natural history at University of Neuchel. Later, he accepted a professorship at Harvard University in the United States.
Lost city: In the popular imagination lost cities were real, prosperous, well-populated areas of human habitation that fell into terminal decline and whose location may have later been lost. Most lost cities at known sites have been studied extensively by scientists. Abandoned urban sites of relatively recent origin might be referred to as ghost towns; this article, however, includes places where people lived that were important local centres, without applying a specific test of size.
Longship: Longships were naval vessels made and used by the Vikings from Scandinavia and Iceland for trade, commerce, exploration, and warfare during the Viking Age. The longships design evolved over many years, beginning in the Stone Age with the invention of the umiak and continuing up to the 9th century with the Nydam and Kvalsund ships. The longship appeared in its complete form between the 9th and 13th centuries.
Luigi Alamanni: Luigi Alamanni (sometimes spelt Alemanni; 6 March 1495 - 18 April 1556) was an Italian poet and statesman. He was regarded as a prolific and versatile poet, and is credited with introducing the epigram into Italian poetry.
LR parser: In computer science, an LR parser is a parser that reads input from Left to right (as it would appear if visually displayed) and produces a Rightmost derivation. The term LR(k) parser is also used; where the k refers to the number of unconsumed "look ahead" input symbols that are used in making parsing decisions. Usually k is 1 and the term LR parser is often intended to refer to this case.
Li Bai: Li Bai or Li Po or Li Bo (701 - 762) was a Chinese poet. He was part of the group of Chinese scholars called the "Eight Immortals of the Wine Cup" in a poem by fellow poet Du Fu. Li Bai is often regarded, along with Du Fu, as one of the two greatest poets in China's literary history. Approximately 1,100 of his poems remain today. The first translations in a Western language were published in 1862 by Marquis d'Hervey de Saint-Denys in his Poies de l'oque des Thang.
Louis Aleman: Louis Aleman (c. 1390 - September 16, 1450) was a French cardinal. He was born of a noble family at the castle of Arbent near Bugey. A relative was the Papal Chamberlain. He was successively bishop of Maguelonne (1418), archbishop of Arles (1423) and Cardinal Priest of S. Cecilia (1426). He was a prominent member of the council of Basel, and, together with Cardinal Julian Cesarini, led the party which maintained the supremacy of general councils over the pope's authority.
Leon Battista Alberti: Leon Battista Alberti (February 18, 1404 - April 20, 1472) was an Italian author, artist, architect, poet, priest, linguist, philosopher, and cryptographer, and general Renaissance humanist polymath. Alberti's life was described in Giorgio Vasari's Vite de' pi eccellenti pittori, scultori, e architettori or 'Lives of the most excellent painters, sculptors and architects'.
Little Nemo: Little Nemo is the main fictional character in a series of weekly comic strips by Winsor McCay (1871-1934) that appeared in the New York Herald and William Randolph Hearst's New York American newspapers from October 15, 1905 - April 23, 1911 and April 30, 1911 - July 26, 1914; respectively. The strip was first called Little Nemo in Slumberland and then In the Land of Wonderful Dreams when it changed papers. A brief revival of the original title occurred from 1924-27.
Lydia: Lydia was an Iron Age kingdom of western Asia Minor located generally east of ancient Ionia in the modern Turkish provinces of Manisa and inland zmir. Its population spoke an Anatolian language known as Lydian. At its greatest extent, the Kingdom of Lydia covered all of western Anatolia. Lydia was later the name for a Roman province. Coins were invented in Lydia around 610 BC.
Leningrad disambiguation: Leningrad is the former name of Saint Petersburg, Russia.
Lucius Tarquinius Priscus: Lucius Tarquinius Priscus, also called Tarquin the Elder or Tarquin I, was the fifth King of Rome from 616 BC to 579 BC. His wife was Tanaquil.
Lancelot Andrewes: Lancelot Andrewes (1555 - 25 September 1626) was an English clergyman and scholar, who held high positions in the Church of England during the reigns of Queen Elizabeth I and King James I. During the latter's reign, Andrewes served successively as Bishop of Chichester, Ely and Winchester and oversaw the translation of the Authorized Version (or King James Version) of the Bible. In the Church of England he is commemorated on 25 September with a Lesser Festival.
Liber Memorialis: The Liber Memorialis is an ancient book in Latin featuring an extremely concise summary- a kind of index- of universal history from earliest times to the reign of Trajan. It was written by Lucius Ampelius, who was possibly a tutor or schoolmaster. Nothing is known of him or of the date at which he lived; the times of Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius, the beginning of the 3rd century, and the age of Diocletian and Constantine have all been suggested.
Lucius Tarquinius Superbus: Lucius Tarquinius Superbus (535 B.C. - 496 B.C. ) was the seventh King of Rome, reigning from 535 until the Roman revolt in 509 B.C. which would lead to the establishment of the Roman Republic. He is more commonly known by his cognomen Tarquinius Superbus and was a member of the Etruscan dynasty of Rome. The historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus may have divided one historical figure named Tarquin into two separate kings because of problems with dating their legendary events.
Livy: Titus Livius (59 BC - AD 17), known as Livy in English, was a Roman historian who wrote a monumental history of Rome and the Roman people, Ab Urbe Condita Libri, "Chapters from the Foundation of the City," covering the period from the earliest legends of Rome well before the traditional foundation in 753 BC through the reign of Augustus in Livy's own time.
Libertarian socialism: Libertarian socialism is a group of political philosophies that aspire to create a society free of coercive hierarchies. Adherents assert that a desirable synthesis of societal equality and freedom could be achieved, at least in part, through abolishing authoritarian institutions that own and control certain productive means as private property.
Labour Day: Labour Day or Labor Day is an annual holiday celebrated all over the world that resulted from the labour union movement, to celebrate the economic and social achievements of workers. The majority of countries celebrate Labour Day on May 1, and it is popularly known as May Day and International Workers' Day, while some celebrate on the first Monday of September.
Land's End: Land's End is a headland on the Penwith peninsula, located near Penzance in Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. It is the most westerly point of the English mainland; the westernmost point of the island of Great Britain as a whole is Corrachadh M, Ardnamurchan, Scotland which is 22 miles (35 km) farther west. The most southerly point of Great Britain is not Land's End but Lizard Point, a few miles to the south-east. Visible from Land's End is the Longships Lighthouse.
Laws of infernal dynamics: The laws of infernal dynamics are an adage about the cursedness of the universe. Attributed to Science fiction author David Gerrold, the laws are as follows: An object in motion will be moving in the wrong direction. An object at rest will be in the wrong place. The energy required to move an object in the correct direction, or put it in the right place, will be more than you wish to expend but not so much as to make the task impossible.
Bodyline: Bodyline, also known as fast leg theory, was a cricketing tactic devised by the English cricket team for their 1932-33 Ashes tour of Australia, specifically to combat the extraordinary batting skill of Australia's Don Bradman.
Louise Erdrich: Karen Louise Erdrich, known as Louise Erdrich, (born June 7, 1954) is a Native American author of novels, poetry, and children's books. She is widely acclaimed as one of the most significant Native writers of the second wave of what critic Kenneth Lincoln has called the Native American Renaissance. In April 2009, her novel The Plague of Doves was named a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in Fiction. She is the owner of Birchbark Books, a small independent bookstore in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Linguistic: Linguistic may mean: pertaining to language specifically, pertaining to natural language pertaining to the field of linguistics
Latin literature: Latin literature, the body of written works in the Latin language, remains an enduring legacy of the culture of ancient Rome. The Romans produced many works of poetry, comedy, tragedy, satire, history, and rhetoric, drawing heavily on the traditions of other cultures and particularly on the more matured literary tradition of Greece. Long after the Western Roman Empire had fallen, the Latin language continued to play a central role in western European civilization.
Leonard Bloomfield: Leonard Bloomfield (April 1, 1887 - April 18, 1949) was an American linguist who led the development of structural linguistics in the United States during the 1930s and the 1940s. His influential textbook Language, published in 1933, presented a comprehensive description of American structural linguistics. He made significant contributions to Indo-European historical linguistics, the description of Austronesian languages, and description of languages of the Algonquian family.
Leather: Leather is a durable and flexible material created via the tanning of putrescible animal rawhide and skin, primarily cattlehide. It can be produced through different manufacturing processes, ranging from cottage industry to heavy industry. The leather and the fur industries are differentiated by the manufacturing importance of the raw materials used to make the wares.
Long Parliament: The Long Parliament is the name of the English Parliament called by Charles I, on 3 November 1640, following the Bishops' Wars. It received its name from the fact that through an Act of Parliament, it could only be dissolved with the agreement of the members, and those members did not agree to its dissolution until after the English Civil War and at the end of Interregnum in 1660.
Lise Meitner: Lise Meitner (7 or 17 November 1878 - 27 October 1968) was an Austrian-born, later Swedish physicist who worked on radioactivity and nuclear physics. Meitner was part of the team that discovered nuclear fission, an achievement for which her colleague Otto Hahn was awarded the Nobel Prize. Meitner is often mentioned as one of the most glaring examples of women's scientific achievement overlooked by the Nobel committee.
Lubricant: A lubricant (sometimes referred to as "lube") is a substance (often a liquid) introduced between two moving surfaces to reduce the friction between them, improving efficiency and reducing wear. It may also have the function of dissolving or transporting foreign particles and of distributing heat. One of the single largest applications for lubricants, in the form of motor oil, is protecting the internal combustion engines in motor vehicles and powered equipment.
L cut: An L cut, also known as a split edit, is an edit transition from one shot to another in film or video, where the picture transition does not occur coincidentally with the audio transition. This is often done to enhance the aesthetics or flow of the film (for examplea conversation between two people can feel like a tennis match without L cuts. L cuts allow the audience to see the reactionary impulse to speak, or the aftermath of speaking rather than simply the act of speaking.
Lexicon: In linguistics, the lexicon of a language is its vocabulary, including its words and expressions. More formally, it is a language's inventory of lexemes. The lexicon includes the lexemes used to actualize words. Lexemes are formed according to morpho-syntactic rules and express sememes.
Llama: The llama (Lama glama) is a South American camelid, widely used as a pack and meat animal by Andean cultures since pre-hispanic times. In popular culture llamas are mostly associated with the Incans and Peru. The height of a full-grown, full-size llama is between 1.7 meters (5.5 ft) and 1.8 meters (6 ft) tall at the top of the head. They can weigh between approximately 130 kilograms (280 lb) and 200 kilograms (450 lb).
Lacrosse: Lacrosse is a team sport of Native American origin that is played using a small solid rubber ball and a long-handled racquet called a crosse or lacrosse stick. The head of the lacrosse stick is strung with loose netting (mesh) that is designed to hold the lacrosse ball. Offensively, the objective of the game is to use the lacrosse stick to catch, carry, and pass the ball in an effort to score by shooting the ball into an opponent's goal.
Leonardo da Vinci: Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci, (April 15, 1452 - May 2, 1519), was an Italian polymath: painter, sculptor, architect, musician, scientist, mathematician, engineer, inventor, anatomist, geologist, botanist and writer. Leonardo has often been described as the archetype of the Renaissance man, a man whose unquenchable curiosity was equaled only by his powers of invention.
Liverpool: Liverpool is a city and metropolitan borough of Merseyside, England, along the eastern side of the Mersey Estuary. It was founded as a borough in 1207 and was granted city status in 1880. Liverpool is the fourth largest city in the United Kingdom and has a population of 435,500, and lies at the centre of the wider Liverpool Urban Area, which has a population of 816,216.
Luke: Luke is a common male given name, and less commonly, a surname, and sometimes used as a shortened version of the Latin name Lucas. The name Luke could derive from the name of a region in Italy, Lucania, through the ancient Greek "Loukas", meaning "a native of Lucania".. Luke, Lucas and Lucania share the same Indo-European root that produced the Latin word Lux that means "light" and the Greek word Leucos meaning "bright".
Labrador Duck: The Labrador Duck, Camptorhynchus labradorius, was a striking black and white eider-like sea duck that was never common, and is believed to be the first bird to become extinct in North America after 1500. The last Labrador Duck is believed to have been seen at Elmira, New York on December 12, 1878; the last preserved specimen was shot in 1875 on Long Island.
Lettre de cachet: In French history, lettres de cachet were letters signed by the king of France, countersigned by one of his ministers, and closed with the royal seal, or cachet. They contained orders directly from the king, often to enforce arbitrary actions and judgments that could not be appealed. In the case of organized bodies lettres de cachet were issued for the purpose of preventing assembly or to accomplish some other definite act.
Lonsdaleite: Lonsdaleite (named in honour of Kathleen Lonsdale), also called hexagonal diamond in reference to the crystal structure, is an allotrope of carbon with a hexagonal lattice. In nature, it forms when meteorites containing graphite strike the Earth. The great heat and stress of the impact transforms the graphite into diamond, but retains graphite's hexagonal crystal lattice.
Lilia Podkopayeva: Lilia Alexandrivna Podkopayeva is a retired Ukrainian gymnast who became the 1996 Olympic all-around champion. She is widely regarded as one of the best gymnasts in history. Podkoypayeva was often referred to as the "complete package" gymnast, possessing equal qualities of technical skill and artistic expression. Her routines were known for their melding of balletic, expressive choreography, clean execution, impeccable form and extremely difficult skills.
Local Group: The Local Group is the group of galaxies that includes our galaxy, the Milky Way. The group comprises about 30 galaxies, with its gravitational center located somewhere between the Milky Way and the Andromeda Galaxy. The galaxies of the Local Group cover a 10 million light-year diameter (see 1 E+22 m for distance comparisons) and have a binary (dumbbell) shape. The group is estimated to have a total mass of (1.29 0.14) 10M.
Lisbon: Lisbon is the capital and largest city of Portugal. It is considered an alpha global city and is the seat of the district of Lisbon and the main city of the Lisbon region. Its municipality, which matches the city proper excluding the larger continuous conurbation, has a municipal population of 564,477 in 84.8 km (33 sq mi), while the Lisbon Metropolitan Area in total has around 2.8 million inhabitants, and 3.34 million people live in the broader agglomeration of Lisbon Metropolitan Region.
Litre: The litre (or liter - see spelling differences) is a unit of volume. There are two official symbols: the Latin letter L in lower and upper case (l and L). The lower case L is also often written as a cursive , though this symbol has no official approval by any international bureau. Although the litre is not an SI unit, it is accepted for use with the SI, and has appeared in several versions of the metric system. The official SI unit of volume is the cubic metre (m), equivalent to 1,000 litres.
Long jump: The long jump is an athletics (track and field) event in which athletes combine speed, strength, and agility in an attempt to leap as far from the take-off point as possible.
Linguist disambiguation: A linguist can be A specialist in linguistics. See List of linguists for prominent linguists in this sense A specialist in languages, including translators, interpreters, and language teachers Linguist may also refer to: The Linguist List, online linguistics resource The Linguist, monthly magazine of the Chartered Institute of Linguists Polyglot (person), a person skilled in multiple languages
Lavr Kornilov: Lavr Georgiyevich Kornilov (August 18, 1870-April 13, 1918) was a senior Russian army general during World War I and the ensuing Russian Civil War. He is today best remembered for the Kornilov Affair, an unsuccessful endeavor in August/September 1917 that purported to strengthen Alexander Kerensky's Provisional Government, but which led to Kerensky eventually having Kornilov arrested and charged with attempting a coup d'at.
L. L. Zamenhof: Lazar Ludwik Zamenhof (in English; born Eliezer Levi Samenhof, December 15, 1859 - April 14, 1917) was an ophthalmologist, philologist, and the inventor of Esperanto, a constructed language designed for international communication.
Linear map: In mathematics, a linear map (also called a linear transformation, linear function or linear operator) is a function between two vector spaces that preserves the operations of vector addition and scalar multiplication. The expression "linear operator" is commonly used for linear maps from a vector space to itself. In advanced mathematics, the definition of linear function coincides with the definition of linear map.
Leyden jar: The Leyden jar, or Leiden jar, is a device that "stores" static electricity between two electrodes on the inside and outside of a jar. It was invented independently by Ewald Georg von Kleist on 11th October 1744 and by Pieter van Musschenbroek in 17451746. The latter place of invention, Leiden in the Netherlands gave the invention its name. It was the original form of the capacitor.
Large-scale structure of the cosmos: In physical cosmology, the large-scale structure of the universe refers to the characterization of observable distributions of matter and light on the largest scales (typically on the order of billions of light-years). Sky surveys and mappings of the various wavelength bands of electromagnetic radiation have yielded much information on the content and character of the universe's structure.
Lennon Wall: The Lennon Wall is a wall in Prague, Czech Republic. Once a normal wall, since the 1980s it has been filled with John Lennon-inspired graffiti and pieces of lyrics from Beatles songs. In 1988, the wall was a source of irritation for the then communist regime of Gustav Husak. Young Czechs would write grievances on the wall and in a report of the time this led to a clash between hundreds of students and security police on the nearby Charles Bridge.
Lepus constellation: Lepus is a constellation lying just south of the celestial equator. Its name is Latin for hare. Lepus was one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and it remains one of the 88 modern constellations. It is located below the constellation Orion (the hunter), and is sometimes represented as a hare being chased by Orion. This constellation should not be confused with Lupus, the wolf.
Lupus constellation: Lupus is a constellation in the southern sky. Its name is Latin for wolf. Lupus was one of the 48 constellations, listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and it remains one of the 88 modern constellations. It lies between Centaurus and Scorpius.
Lyra: Lyra is a constellation. Its name derived from the lyre, a stringed musical instrument well known for its use in classical antiquity and later. Lyra was one of the 48 constellations listed by the 2nd century astronomer Ptolemy, and it remains one of the 88 modern constellations recognized by the International Astronomical Union today. Lyra is a small constellation, but its principal star, Vega, is one of the brightest in the sky.
Los Angeles: Los Angeles is the second largest city in the United States, and with a population of 3.8 million is the largest city in the state of California and the Western United States. Additionally the city spans over 498.3 square miles (1,290.6 km) in Southern California and is anchored to the world's 13th largest metropolitan area with 17.7 million people spread out over much of coastal Southern California.
Liverpool F.C.: Liverpool Football Club is a professional football club based in Liverpool, England which plays in the Premier League and is one of the most successful in the history of English football, winning more trophies than any other English club. Liverpool has won a joint-record eighteen league titles, seven FA Cups, seven League Cups, three UEFA Cups and five European Cups, an English record. The club was founded in 1892 and won five league championships between 1900 and 1947.
Lysosome: Lysosomes are spherical organelles that contain enzymes. They break up food so it is easier to digest. They are found in animal cells, while in yeast and plants the same roles are performed by lytic vacuoles. Lysosomes digest excess or worn-out organelles, food particles, and engulfed viruses or bacteria. The membrane around a lysosome allows the digestive enzymes to work at the 4.5 pH they require.
Leg spin: Leg spin is a type of spin bowling in the sport of cricket. A leg spinner bowls right-arm with a wrist spin action, causing the ball to spin from right to left in the cricket pitch, at the point of delivery. When the ball bounces, the spin causes the ball to deviate sharply from right to left, that is, away from the leg side of a right-handed batsman. The same bowling action when performed by a left-arm bowler is known as left-arm unorthodox spin bowling.
Links web browser: Links is an open source text and graphic web browser with a pull-down menu system. It renders complex pages, has partial HTML 4.0 support (including tables and frames and support for multiple character sets such as UTF-8), supports color and monochrome terminals and allows horizontal scrolling. It is oriented toward visual users who want to retain many typical elements of graphical user interfaces (pop up windows, menus etc. ) in a text-only environment.
Legnica: Legnica is a city on the Kaczawa river in south-western Poland. According to official figures for June 2009, it has a total population of 104,393. The city was formerly known in Polish as Lignica; it was officially renamed Legnica in 1946, after it had passed to Poland from Germany following World War II. Since 1999 Legnica has been part of Lower Silesian Voivodeship (from 1975 to 1998 it was the administrative seat of the former Legnica Voivodeship).
Learning object: A learning object is a resource, usually digital and web-based, that can be used and re-used to support learning. Learning objects offer a new conceptualization of the learning process: rather than the traditional "several hour chunk", they provide smaller, self-contained, re-usable units of learning. They will typically have a number of different components, which range from descriptive data to information about rights and educational level.
Labour Party: The name Labour Party (or Labor), or similar, is used by several political parties around the world, particularly common in countries of the Commonwealth of Nations. They are most commonly, but not exclusively, social democrats or democratic socialists and have been traditionally allied to the Labour movement and trade unions. Many labour parties are members of the Socialist International.
Fauvism: Les Fauves (French for The Wild Beasts) were a short-lived and loose grouping of early 20th century Modern artists whose works emphasized painterly qualities and strong colour over the representational or realistic values retained by Impressionism. While Fauvism as a style began around 1900 and continued beyond 1910, the movement as such lasted only three years, 1905-1907, and had three exhibitions. The leaders of the movement were Henri Matisse and Andr Derain.
Lisp machine: Lisp machines were general-purpose computers designed (usually through hardware support) to efficiently run Lisp as their main software language. In a sense, they were the first commercial single-user workstations.
Lorenz curve: In economics, the Lorenz curve is a graphical representation of the cumulative distribution function of the empirical probability distribution of wealth; it is a graph showing the proportion of the distribution assumed by the bottom y% of the values. It is often used to represent income distribution, where it shows for the bottom x% of households, what percentage y% of the total income they have. The percentage of households is plotted on the x-axis, the percentage of income on the y-axis.
La T ne culture: The La Te culture was a European Iron Age culture named after the archaeological site of La Te on the north side of Lake Neuchel in Switzerland, where a rich trove of artifacts was discovered by Hansli Kopp in 1857. La Te culture developed and flourished during the late Iron Age (from 450 BC to the Roman conquest in the 1st century BCE) in eastern France, Switzerland, Austria, southwest Germany, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary.
Literate programming: Literate programming is an approach to programming introduced by Donald Knuth as an alternative to the structured programming paradigm of the 1970s. The literate programming paradigm, as conceived by Knuth, represents a move away from writing programs in the manner and order imposed by the computer, and instead enables programmers to develop programs in the order demanded by the logic and flow of their thoughts.
Logistic map: The logistic map is a polynomial mapping of degree 2, often cited as an archetypal example of how complex, chaotic behaviour can arise from very simple non-linear dynamical equations. The map was popularized in a seminal 1976 paper by the biologist Robert May, in part as a discrete-time demographic model analogous to the logistic equation first created by Pierre Franis Verhulst.
Louisiana: The State of Louisiana is a state located in the southern region of the United States of America. Its capital is Baton Rouge and largest city is New Orleans. Louisiana is the only state in the U.S. with political subdivisions termed parishes, which are local governments equivalent to counties. The largest parish by population is Jefferson Parish, and the largest by land area is Cameron Parish.
League of Nations mandate: A League of Nations mandate refers to a legal status for certain territories transferred from the control of one country to another following World War I, or the legal instruments that contained the terms for administering the territory on behalf of the League. These were of the nature of a treaty or convention and contained minority rights clauses that provided for the right of petition and adjudication by the International Court.
Levant: The Levant describes, traditionally, the Eastern Mediterranean at large, but can be used as a geographical term that denotes a large area in Western Asia formed by the lands bordering the eastern shores of the Mediterranean, roughly bounded on the north by the Taurus Mountains, on the south by the Arabian Desert, and on the west by the Mediterranean Sea, while on the east it extends towards the Zagros Mountains.
Loudon Classic: The Loudon Classic, held at the New Hampshire Motor Speedway (formerly Bryar Motorsport Park and New Hampshire International Speedway) is the longest running motorcycle race in the United States, and is held every year on Father's Day. While it is popularly known as Laconia, the location of the race was moved from Belknap Recreation Area to Loudon in 1964.
Laser applications: There are many scientific, military, medical and commercial laser applications which have been developed since the invention of the laser in the 1958. The coherency, high monochromaticity, and ability to reach extremely high powers are all properties which allow for these specialized applications.
Los Angeles International Airport: Los Angeles International Airport is the primary airport serving Los Angeles, California, the second-most populated metropolitan area of the United States. It is often referred to by its IATA airport code LAX, with the letters usually pronounced individually. LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles in the neighborhood of Westchester, 16 mi (26 km) from the downtown core.
Lincoln New Hampshire: Lincoln is a town in Grafton County, New Hampshire, United States. The population was 1,271 at the 2000 census. Lincoln, the second-largest town by area in New Hampshire, includes the village of North Lincoln and the former village site of Stillwater. The town is home to the New Hampshire Highland Games and to a portion of Franconia Notch State Park. Set in the White Mountains, large portions of the town are within the White Mountain National Forest.
Lorenz attractor: The Lorenz attractor, named for Edward N. Lorenz, is a fractal structure corresponding to the long-term behavior of the Lorenz oscillator. The Lorenz oscillator is a 3-dimensional dynamical system that exhibits chaotic flow, noted for its lemniscate shape. The map shows how the state of a dynamical system (the three variables of a three-dimensional system) evolves over time in a complex, non-repeating pattern.
Laser construction: A laser is constructed from three principal parts: An energy source (usually referred to as the pump or pump source), A gain medium or laser medium, and Two or more mirrors that form an optical resonator.
Logical conjunction: In logic and mathematics, logical conjunction or and is a two-place logical connective that has the value true if both of its operands are true, otherwise a value of false.
Logical connective: In logic, a logical connective (also called a logical operator) is a symbol or word used to connect two or more sentences (of either a formal or a natural language) in a grammatically valid way, such that the compound sentence produced has a truth value dependent on the respective truth values of the original sentences. Each logical connective can be expressed as a function, called a truth function. For this reason, logical connectives are sometimes called truth-functional connectives.
Left-arm orthodox spin: Left-arm orthodox spin is a type of bowling in the sport of cricket. Left-arm orthodox spin is bowled by a left arm bowler using the fingers to spin the ball from right to left of the cricket pitch. Left arm spin bowlers generally attempt to drift the ball in the air into a right handed batsman, making it drift on the air and spining away from the batsman upon landing on the pitch. The drift and turn in the air are attacking techniques.
Propositional calculus: In mathematical logic, a propositional calculus or logic (also called sentential calculus) is a formal system in which formulas of a formal language may be interpreted as representing propositions. A system of inference rules and axioms allows certain formulas to be derived, called theorems; which may be interpreted as true propositions.
Lazy evaluation: In computer programming, lazy evaluation is the technique of delaying a computation until the result is required. The benefits of lazy evaluation include: performance increases due to avoiding unnecessary calculations, avoiding error conditions in the evaluation of compound expressions, the capability of constructing potentially infinite data structures, and the capability of defining control structures as abstractions instead of as primitives.
Lucent Technologies: Lucent Technologies was a technology company composed of what was formerly AT&T Technologies, which included Western Electric and Bell Labs. It was spun off from AT&T on September 30, 1996. Lucent merged with Alcatel SA of France to form Alcatel-Lucent on December 1, 2006.
Lupercalia: Lupercalia was a very ancient, possibly pre-Roman pastoral festival, observed on February 15 to avert evil spirits and purify the city, releasing health and fertility. Lupercalia subsumed Februa, a possibly earlier-origin spring cleansing ritual held on the same date, which gives the month of February its name.
List of nontheists: Nontheists, or non-theists, are people who do not believe in deities. They are defined in contradistinction with theists. The term atheist, in its broadest sense, is synonymous with nontheist. However, atheism has a variety of definitions and typologies; nontheism may be used as a more encompassing term, or to avoid connoting antireligion and other views. Nontheism encompasses people with a variety of different philosophies and world-views, from some Buddhists to humanists.
List of agnostics: Listed here are persons who have identified themselves as agnostics. Also included are those who have expressed the view that it is unknown or inherently unknowable whether any gods exist.
Lemuridae: Lemuridae is a family of prosimian primates native to Madagascar, and one of five families commonly known as lemurs. These animals were thought to be the evolutionary predecessors of monkeys and apes, but this is no longer considered correct. The family gets its name from the Ancient Roman belief that the animals were ghosts or spirits, because many species are nocturnal.
List of Buddhists: The Buddha, Siddhartha Gautama Ambapali Ananda, Siddhartha's cousin, personal attendant of the Buddha and one of his chief disciples Anathapindika Angulimala Anuruddha Assaji Ajatasattu Bimbisara Channa Citta Cunda Devadatta, another cousin of Siddhartha and later rival who attempted to assassinate the Buddha Hatthaka of Alavi Maha Kaccana Khema Khujjuttara Kisa Gotami Konda Mahkyapa Mahanama Mallika Maudgalyayana, one of two chief disciples of the Buddha.
Linked list: In computer science, a linked list is a data structure that consists of a sequence of data records such that in each record there is a field that contains a reference (i.e. , a link) to the next record in the sequence. Linked lists are among the simplest and most common data structures, and are used to implement many important abstract data structures, such as stacks, queues, hash tables, symbolic expressions, skip lists, and many more.
Logic gate: A logic gate performs a logical operation on one or more logic inputs and produces a single logic output. The logic normally performed is Boolean logic and is most commonly found in digital circuits. Logic gates are primarily implemented electronically using diodes or transistors, but can also be constructed using electromagnetic relays, fluidic logic, pneumatic logic, optics, molecules, or even mechanical elements.
Linear search: In computer science, linear search or sequential search is a method for finding a particular value in a list, that consists in checking every one of its elements, one at a time and in sequence, until the desired one is found. Linear search is the simplest search algorithm; it is a special case of brute-force search. Its worst case cost is proportional to the number of elements in the list; and so is its expected cost, if all list elements are equally likely to be searched for.
List of libertarian political parties: Many countries and subnational political entities have libertarian political parties. Although these parties may describe themselves as "libertarian," their ideologies differ considerably and not all of them support all elements of the libertarian agenda. Some of these parties prefer the label "liberal".
Land mine: A step shaft (a.k.a. land mine) is usually a victim-triggered explosive device which is intended to damage its target via blast and/or fragments. The name originates from the practice of mining, where tunnels were dug under enemy fortifications or forces. These tunnels ("mines") were first collapsed to destroy fortifications above, and later filled with explosives and detonated.
Labour economics: Labor economics seeks to understand the functioning and dynamics of the market for labor. Labor markets function through the interaction of workers and employers. Labor economics looks at the suppliers of labor services (workers), the demands of labor services (employers), and attempts to understand the resulting pattern of wages, employment, and income. In economics, labor is a measure of the work done by human beings.
Loa: The Loa (also Lwa or L'wha) are the spirits of the Voodoo religion practiced in Haiti, and other parts of the world. They are also referred to as Mystes and the Invisibles. They are somewhat akin to saints or angels in Christianity in that they are intermediaries between Bondye (Bon Dieu, or good god)the Creator, who is distant from the worldand humanity. Unlike saints or angels however, they are not simply prayed to, they are served.
Longmeadow Massachusetts: Longmeadow is a town in Hampden County, Massachusetts, United States. The population was 15,633 at the 2000 census. Its town government consists of a Select Board with 5 members. Longmeadow is part of the Springfield, Massachusetts Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Lammas: In some English-speaking countries in the Northern Hemisphere, August 1 is Lammas Day (loaf-mass day), the festival of the first wheat harvest of the year. On this day it was customary to bring to church a loaf made from the new crop. In many parts of England, tenants were bound to present freshly harvested wheat to their landlords on or before the first day of August. In the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, where it is referred to regularly, it is called "the feast of first fruits".
Relative direction: The most common relative directions are ', ', ', ', ', and '. No absolute direction corresponds to any of the relative directions. This is a consequence of the translational invariance of the laws of physics: nature, loosely speaking, behaves the same no matter what direction one moves. As demonstrated by the Michelson-Morley null result, there is no absolute inertial frame of reference. There are definite relationships between the relative directions, however.
Lizard: Lizards are a very large and widespread group of squamate reptiles, with nearly 3800 species, ranging across all continents except Antarctica as well as most oceanic island chains. The group, traditionally recognized as the suborder Lacertilia, is defined as all extant members of the Lepidosauria (reptiles with overlapping scales) which are neither sphenodonts, nor snakes.
List of deists: This is a partial list of people who have been categorized as deists, the belief in a God based on natural religion only, or belief in religious truths discovered by people through a process of reasoning, independent of any revelation through scripture or prophets. They have been selected for their influence on Deism, or for their fame in other areas.
L. Frank Baum: Lyman Frank Baum (15 May 1856 - 6 May 1919) was a US author, poet, playwright, actor, and independent filmmaker best known today as the creator - along with illustrator WW Denslow - of one of the most popular books in US children's literature, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz.
Book of Leviticus: Leviticus or Vayikra is the third book of the Hebrew Bible, and the third of five books of the Torah/Pentateuch. Leviticus contains laws and priestly rituals, but in a wider sense is about the working out of God's covenant with Israel set out in Genesis and Exoduswhat is seen in the Torah as the consequences of entering into a special relationship with God. These consequences are set out in terms of community relationships and behaviour.
Language family: A language family is a group of languages related by descent from a common ancestor, called the proto-language of that family. The term comes from the Tree model of language origination in historical linguistics, which makes use of a metaphor comparing languages to people in a biological family tree or in a subsequent modification to species in a phylogenetic tree of evolutionary taxonomy. All the apparently biological terms are used only in the metaphoric sense.
Lake Ladoga: Lake Ladoga is a freshwater lake located in the Republic of Karelia and Leningrad Oblast in northwestern Russia, not far from Saint Petersburg. It is the largest lake in Europe, and the 14th largest lake by area in the world.
LaTeX: LaTeX is a document markup language and document preparation system for the TeX typesetting program. Within the typesetting system, its name is styled as . LaTeX is most widely used by mathematicians, scientists, engineers, philosophers, linguists, economists and other scholars in academia and the commercial world, and other professionals. As a primary or intermediate format, LaTeX is used because of the high quality of typesetting achievable by TeX.
Looe Island: Looe Island, also known as St George's Island, and historically St Michael's Island is a small island a mile from the mainland town of Looe in Cornwall, United Kingdom. According to local legend, Joseph of Arimathea landed here with the child Christ. Others have identified the island as Ictis, the location described by Diodorus Siculus as a center for the tin trade in pre-Roman Britain.
Lebesgue measure: In measure theory, the Lebesgue measure, named after Henri Lebesgue, is the standard way of assigning a length, area or volume to subsets of Euclidean space. It is used throughout real analysis, in particular to define Lebesgue integration. Sets which can be assigned a volume are called Lebesgue measurable; the volume or measure of the Lebesgue measurable set A is denoted by (A).
List of saints: This is an incomplete list of Christian saints in alphabetical order by Christian name, but if necessary by surname, the place, or attribute part of the name as well. There are more than 10,000 Roman Catholic saints.
Lake Champlain: Lake Champlain is a natural, freshwater lake in North America, located mainly within the borders of the United States but partially situated across the Canada - United States border in the Canadian province of Quebec. The New York portion of the Champlain Valley includes the eastern portions of Clinton County and Essex County.
Lossless data compression: Lossless data compression is a class of data compression algorithms that allows the exact original data to be reconstructed from the compressed data. The term lossless is in contrast to lossy data compression, which only allows an approximation of the original data to be reconstructed in exchange for better compression rates. Lossless data compression is used in many applications. For example, it is used in the popular ZIP file format and in the Unix tool gzip.
Larry Niven: Laurence van Cott Niven (born April 30, 1938 Los Angeles, California) is an American science fiction author. Perhaps his best-known work is Ringworld (1970), which received Hugo, Locus, Ditmar, and Nebula awards. His work is primarily hard science fiction, using big science concepts and theoretical physics. It also often includes elements of detective fiction and adventure stories. His fantasy includes The Magic Goes Away series, rational fantasy dealing with magic as a non-renewable resource.
Lambda calculus: In mathematical logic and computer science, lambda calculus, also written as -calculus, is a formal system for function definition, function application and recursion. It was introduced by Alonzo Church in the 1930s as part of an investigation into the foundations of mathematics. After the original system was shown to be logically inconsistent, Church isolated and published in 1936 just the portion relevant to computation, what is now called the untyped lambda calculus.
Lossy compression: A lossy compression method is one where compressing data and then decompressing it retrieves data that is different from the original, but is close enough to be useful in some way. Lossy compression is most commonly used to compress multimedia data, especially in applications such as streaming media and internet telephony. By contrast, lossless compression is required for text and data files, such as bank records, text articles, etc.
Louis Andriessen: Louis Andriessen (June 6, 1939) is a Dutch composer and pianist based in Amsterdam. He teaches composition at the Royal Conservatory of The Hague. He was recipient of the Gaudeamus International Composers Award in 1959.
Los Angeles Dodgers: The Los Angeles Dodgers are a Major League Baseball team based in Los Angeles, California, USA. The team is in the Western Division of the National League. Established in 1883, the team originated in Brooklyn, New York, where it was known by a number of nicknames before becoming the Brooklyn Dodgers definitively by the 1932 season. The team moved to Los Angeles before the 1958 season.
Linux distribution: A Linux distribution (also called GNU/Linux distribution by some vendors and users) is a member of the family of Unix-like software distributions built on top of the Linux kernel. Such distributions (often called distros for short) consist of a large collection of software applications such as word processors, spreadsheets, media players and database applications.
Lorica segmentata: The lrca segmentta was a type of segmented armour exclusively used in the Roman Empire, but the Latin name was first used in the 16th century (the ancient form is unknown, although it is possible that the Romans referred to the armour as "lorica laminata"). The armour itself consisted of broad ferrous (originally iron, but steel in modern recreations) strips ('girth hoops') fastened to internal leather straps.
Leonard Peltier: Leonard Peltier (born September 12, 1944) is an American activist and member of the American Indian Movement (AIM) who was convicted and sentenced in 1977 to two consecutive terms of life imprisonment for the murder of two Federal Bureau of Investigation agents during a 1975 shootout on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. There has been debate over Peltiers guilt and the fairness of his trial.
Known Space: Known Space is the fictional setting of several science fiction novels and short stories written by author Larry Niven. It has also in part been used as a shared universe in the Man-Kzin Wars spin-off anthologies sub-series. The epithet "Known Space" is an in-universe term that refers to a relatively small part of the galaxy centered around Earth.
LambdaMOO: LambdaMOO is an online community of the variety called a MOO. It is the oldest MOO today and one of the most active, with just under 3000 regular members. Typically, around 100 members are connected at any given time. LambdaMOO was founded in 1990 by Pavel Curtis. Hosted in the state of Washington, it is operated and administered entirely on a volunteer basis. Guests are allowed, and membership is free to anyone with an e-mail address.
Leaf node: In computer science, a leaf node or external node is a node of a tree data structure that has zero child nodes. Often, leaf nodes are the nodes farthest from the root node. In the graph theory tree, a leaf node is a vertex of degree 1 other than the root (except when the tree has only one vertex; then the root, too, is a leaf). Every tree has at least one leaf. A non-leaf node is called an internal node.
Little Penguin: The Little Penguin (Eudyptula minor) is the smallest species of penguin. The penguin, which is about 43 cm (16 in) tall, is found on the coastlines of southern Australia and New Zealand, with possible records from Chile. Apart from Little Penguins, they have several common names. In Australia, they are also referred to as Fairy Penguins because of their tiny size.
La Jet e: La jet (1962) is a 28-minute black and white science fiction film by Chris Marker. Constructed almost entirely from still photos, it tells the story of a post-nuclear war experiment in time travel. The film won the Prix Jean Vigo for short film.
Lake Balaton: Lake Balaton, in the Transdanubian region of Hungary, is the largest lake in Central Europe, and one of its foremost tourist destinations. As Hungary is landlocked, it is often affectionately called the "Hungarian Sea". The Zala River provides the largest inflow of water to the lake, and the canalized Si is the only outflow.
LeRoy Homer Jr.: LeRoy Wilton Homer Jr. (August 27, 1965 - September 11, 2001) was the First Officer of United Airlines Flight 93, which was hijacked and crashed into a reclaimed coal-mining area near Stonycreek and Shanksville on September 11, 2001. He grew up on Long Island in New York where he always dreamed of flying. As a child, he assembled model airplanes, collected aviation memorabilia and read books on aviation. He was 15 years old when he started flight instruction in Cessna 152.
Lithium citrate: Lithium citrate (Li3C6H5O7) is a chemical compound of lithium and citrate that is used as a mood stabilizer in psychiatric treatment of manic states and bipolar disorder. For the medical aspects of lithium citrate, see lithium pharmacology. Hundreds of soft drinks included lithium salts or lithia water (naturally occurring mineral waters with higher lithium amounts).
Lithium carbonate: Lithium carbonate is a chemical compound with the formula Li2CO3. This colourless salt is widely used in the processing of metal oxide and has received attention for its use in psychiatry. It is found in nature as the rare mineral zabuyelite.
Lunar rover: The Lunar Roving Vehicle (LRV) or lunar rover (popularly known as the moon buggy) was a 4-wheeled rover used on the Moon during the last three missions (15, 16, and 17) of the Apollo program in the early 1970s. The LRV could carry one or two astronauts, their equipment, and lunar samples.
Lake Kickapoo: Lake Kickapoo is a reservoir in Archer County, Texas. Created in 1947. It has a surface area of 6,200 acres (25 km). Named after the Kickapoo tribe native to the area. One of the nine Air Force Space Surveillance System (formerly NAVSPASUR) sites is located at Lake Kickapoo. It is the master transmitter and the most powerful continuous wave (CW) station in the world, at 768 kW radiated power.
Labyrinth: In Greek mythology, the Labyrinth was an elaborate structure designed and built by the legendary artificer Daedalus for King Minos of Crete at Knossos. Its function was to hold the Minotaur, a creature that was half man and half bull and was eventually killed by the Athenian hero Theseus. Daedalus had made the Labyrinth so cunningly that he himself could barely escape it after he built it.
Libro de los juegos: The Libro de los Juegos, ("Book of games"), or Libro de acedrex, dados e tablas, ("Book of chess, dice and tables", in Old Spanish) was commissioned by Alfonso X of Castile, Galicia and Le and completed in his scriptorium in Toledo in 1283, is an exemplary piece of Alfonsos medieval literary legacy. Consisting of ninety-seven leaves of parchment, many with color illustrations, and contains 150 miniatures.
Lyon Healy: Lyon & Healy (founded in 1864), built its first harp in 1889 and is one of the major harp manufacturers in the USA. Lyon & Healy has its headquarters in Chicago, Illinois, United States, which, in addition to being the location of the production of its harps, also contains a showroom, concert hall, and recording studios.
LaGrand case: The LaGrand case was a legal action heard before the International Court of Justice (ICJ) which concerned the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. In the case the ICJ found that its own temporary court orders were legally binding and that the rights contained in the convention could not be denied by the application of domestic legal procedures.
Lotus 1-2-3: Lotus 1-2-3 is a spreadsheet program from Lotus Software (now part of IBM). It was the IBM PC's first "killer application"; its huge popularity in the mid-1980s contributed significantly to the success of the IBM PC in the corporate environment.
List of facilities named after Lyndon Johnson: Many facilities have been named after Lyndon B. Johnson, thirty-sixth President of the United States, including the following: Lake LBJ, a lake in Texas Lyndon B. Johnson Freeway, an Interstate freeway in Texas Lyndon B. Johnson National Grassland in Texas LBJ School of Public Affairs, a public affairs graduate school at the University of Texas Lyndon B. Johnson Tropical Medical Center, a hospital in American Samoa LBJ Elementary School in California Lyndon B.
Light pollution: Light pollution, also known as photopollution or luminous pollution, is excessive or obtrusive artificial light. The International Dark-Sky Association (IDA) defines light pollution as: It obscures the stars in the night sky for city dwellers, interferes with astronomical observatories, and, like any other form of pollution, disrupts ecosystems and has adverse health effects.
Liberation Day The Netherlands: In the Netherlands, Liberation Day is celebrated each year on 5 May, to mark the end of the occupation by Nazi Germany during World War II. The nation was liberated largely by Canadian troops, with the assistance of the British and American Armies and French airborne. On 5 May 1945, the Canadian General Charles Foulkes and the German Commander-in-Chief Johannes Blaskowitz reached an agreement on the capitulation of German forces in the Netherlands in Hotel De Wereld in Wageningen.
Lamborghini: Automobili Lamborghini S.p.A. , commonly referred to as Lamborghini, is an Italian automaker based in the small township of Sant'Agata Bolognese. The company was founded in 1963 by manufacturing magnate Ferruccio Lamborghini. It has changed ownership numerous times since, most recently becoming a subsidiary of German car manufacturer AUDI AG (itself a subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group) in 1998.
Lagrangian point: The Lagrangian points (also Lagrange points, L-points, or libration points), are the five positions in an orbital configuration where a small object affected only by gravity can theoretically be stationary relative to two larger objects. The Lagrange points mark positions where the combined gravitational pull of the two large masses provides precisely the centripetal force required to rotate with them.
Lyric: Lyric may refer to: Lyric poetry is a form of poetry that expresses a subjective, personal point of view Lyric, from the Greek language, a song sung with a lyre Lyric a teenage Music Producer from Detroit,michagan, and works under his label Lyric Music Productions. His styles include hip hop, Rap, R&b, Rock, Techno, and jazz.
Light-emitting diode: A light-emitting diode (LED) is a semiconductor light source. LEDs are used as indicator lamps in many devices, and are increasingly used for lighting. Introduced as a practical electronic component in 1962, early LEDs emitted low-intensity red light, but modern versions are available across the visible, ultraviolet and infrared wavelengths, with very high brightness. The LED is based on the semiconductor diode.
Lucid dream: A lucid dream is a dream in which the sleeper is aware that she or he is dreaming. When the dreamer is lucid, she or he can actively participate in and often manipulate the imaginary experiences in the dream environment. Lucid dreams can seem extremely real and vivid depending on a person's level of self-awareness during the lucid dream. The term was coined by the Dutch Psychiatrist and writer Frederik van Eeden (1860-1932). A lucid dream can begin in one of three ways.
Lev Kuleshov: Lev Vladimirovich Kuleshov was a Soviet filmmaker and film theorist who taught at and helped establish the world's first film school (the Moscow Film School).
Luxembourgish language: Luxembourgish, is a Moselle Franconian language spoken mainly in Luxembourg. About 390,000 people worldwide speak Luxembourgish.
Legacy system: A legacy system is an old, technology, computer system, or application program that continues to be used, typically because it still functions for the users' needs, even though newer technology or more efficient methods of performing a task are now available. A legacy system may include procedures or terminology which are no longer relevant in the current context, and may hinder or confuse understanding of the methods or technologies used.
Lamentations: Lamentations may refer to: The Book of Lamentations "Lamentations of Jeremiah the Prophet" and "Genre of the Lamentations," two articles on the music for Tenebrae Laments (Treny) by 16th-century Polish poet Jan Kochanowski Lamentations (Live at Shepherd's Bush Empire 2003), a live DVD by Progressive metal band Opeth
Lunar eclipse: A lunar eclipse occurs when the moon passes behind the earth such that the earth blocks the suns rays from striking the moon. This can occur only when the Sun, Earth and Moon are aligned exactly, or very closely so, with the Earth in the middle. Hence, there is always a full moon the night of a lunar eclipse. The type and length of an eclipse depend upon the Moons location relative to its orbital nodes. The next total lunar eclipse occurs on December 21, 2010.
Liber Pontificalis: The Liber Pontificalis (Latin for Book of the Popes) is a book of biographies of popes from Saint Peter until the 15th century. The original publication of the Liber Pontificalis stopped with Pope Adrian II (867-872) or Pope Stephen V (885-891), but it was later supplemented in a different style until Pope Eugene IV (1431-1447) and then Pope Pius II (1458-1464).
Lanthanide: The lanthanide series comprises the fourteen elements with atomic numbers 58 through 71, from cerium to lutetium. All lanthanides are f-block elements, corresponding to the filling of the 4f electron shell. Lanthanum, which is a d-block element, may also be considered to be a lanthanide. All lanthanide elements form trivalent cations, Ln, whose chemistry is largely determined by the ionic radius, which decreases steadily for lanthanum to lutetium.
Latin alphabet: The Latin alphabet, also called the Roman alphabet, is the most widely used alphabetic writing system in the world today. It evolved from the western variety of the Greek alphabet called the Cumaean alphabet, which was borrowed and modified by the Etruscans who ruled early Rome, whose alphabet was then adapted and further modified by the ancient Romans to write the Latin language.
Lucifer: Lucifer is a Latin word (from the words lucem ferre), literally meaning "light-bearer", which in that language is used as a name for the dawn appearance of the planet Venus, heralding daylight. Use of the word in this sense is uncommon in English, in which "Day Star" or "Morning Star" are more common expressions. In English, "Lucifer" generally refers to Satan, although the name is not applied to him in the New Testament.
Lugh: Lug or Lugh (modern Irish L) is an Irish deity represented in mythological texts as a hero and High King of the distant past. He is known by the epithets Lhfhada, for his skill with a spear or sling, Ildach ("skilled in many arts"), Samhildach ("Equally skilled in many arts"), Lonnbeimnech ("fierce striker" or perhaps "sword-shouter") and Macnia ("boy hero"), and by the matronymic mac Ethlenn or mac Ethnenn ("son of Ethliu or Ethniu").
Louis Armstrong: Louis Daniel Armstrong (August 4, 1901 - July 6, 1971) nicknamed Satchmo or Pops, was an American jazz trumpeter and singer from New Orleans, Louisiana. Coming to prominence in the 1920s as an "inventive" cornet and trumpet player, Armstrong was a foundational influence on jazz, shifting the music's focus from collective improvisation to solo performers.
Lower Peninsula of Michigan: The Lower Peninsula of Michigan is surrounded by water on all sides except its southern border, which it shares with Ohio and Indiana. Geographically, the Lower Peninsula has a recognizable shape that many people associate with a mitten, with the mid-eastern region identified as The Thumb. This has led to several folkloric creation myths for the area, one being that it is a hand print of Paul Bunyan, a giant lumberjack and favorite folk character in Michigan.
Lambda phage: Enterobacteria phage (lambda phage, coliphage ) is a temperate bacteriophage that infects Escherichia coli. Lambda phage is a virus particle consisting of a head, containing double-stranded linear DNA as its genetic material, and a tail that can have tail fibers.
Lamorna Birch: Samuel John "Lamorna" Birch, RA, RWS (June 7, 1869 - January 7, 1955) was an artist in oils and watercolours. At the suggestion of fellow artist Stanhope Forbes, Birch adopted the soubriquet "Lamorna" to distinguish himself from Lionel Birch, an artist who was also working in the area at that time. Lamorna Birch was born in Egremont in Wallasey, Cheshire, England. He was self-taught as an artist, other than for a brief period of study at the Acadie Colarossi in Paris during 1895.
Lens optics: A lens is an optical device with perfect or approximate axial symmetry which transmits and refracts light, converging or diverging the beam. A simple lens consists of a single optical element. A compound lens is an array of simple lenses (elements) with a common axis; the use of multiple elements allows more optical aberrations to be corrected than is possible with a single element. Lenses are typically made of glass or transparent plastic.
Long Island: Long Island is an island located in southeastern New York, United States, just east of Manhattan. Stretching northeast into the Atlantic Ocean, Long Island contains four counties, two of which are boroughs of New York City, and two of which are mainly suburban. Nine bridges and thirteen tunnels connect Brooklyn and Queens (and thus Long Island) to the three other boroughs of New York City. Ferries connect Suffolk County northward across Long Island Sound to the state of Connecticut.
Library classification: A library classification is a system of coding and organizing library materials according to their subject and allocating a call number to that information resource. Similar to classification systems used in biology, bibliographic classification systems group entities together that are similar, typically arranged in a hierarchical tree structure.
Library of Congress Classification: The Library of Congress Classification (LCC) is a system of library classification developed by the Library of Congress. It is used by most research and academic libraries in the U.S. and several other countries. It is not to be confused with the Library of Congress Subject Headings or Library of Congress Control Number. Most public libraries and small academic libraries continue to use the Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC).
Lexus: Lexus is the luxury vehicle division of Japanese automaker Toyota Motor Corporation. Lexus was first introduced in 1989 in the United States, where it has ranked as the highest-selling maker of luxury cars. As of 2006 Lexus vehicles are sold in 68 countries and territories worldwide. In 2005, the division launched in Japan, becoming the first Japanese luxury car marque to be introduced in its home market.
Lake Toba: Lake Toba is a lake and supervolcano, 100 kilometres long and 30 kilometres wide, and 505 metres (1,666 ft) at its deepest point. Located in the middle of the northern part of the Indonesian island of Sumatra with a surface elevation of about 900 metres (2,953 ft), the lake stretches from 253N 9831E; / ;2.88 98.52; / 2.88; 98.52 to 221N 9906E; / ;2.35 99.1; / 2.35; 99.1. It is the largest volcanic lake in the world.
Ligase: In biochemistry, ligase (from the Latin verb ligre - "to bind" or "to glue together") is an enzyme that can catalyse the joining of two large molecules by forming a new chemical bond, usually with accompanying hydrolysis of a small chemical group pendant to one of the larger molecules. In general, ligase catalyses the following reaction: Ab + C A-C + b or sometimes Ab + cD A-D + b + c where the lowercase letters signify the small, pendant groups.
Legal aspects of transsexualism: Transsexual people are those who establish a permanent identity with the gender opposite to the biological sex they were assigned at birth. As most legal jurisdictions have at least some recognition of the two traditional genders at the exclusion of other categories, this raises many legal issues and aspects of transsexualism.
Last Rites: Last Rites are the final prayers and ministrations given to Christians at the time of death. The last rites go by various names and include different practices in different Christian traditions.
Law of multiple proportions: The law of multiple proportions is one of the fundamental laws of stoichiometry and was first discovered by the English chemist John Dalton in 1803. The law states that when chemical elements combine, they do so in a ratio of small whole numbers. For example, carbon and oxygen react to form carbon monoxide (CO) or carbon dioxide (CO2), but not CO1.3.
Logo programming language: LOGO (an acronym for Logic Oriented Graphic Oriented) is a computer programming language used for functional programming. It is an adaptation and dialect of the Lisp language; some have called it Lisp without the parentheses. Today, it is known mainly for its turtle graphics, but it also has significant facilities for handling lists, files, I/O, and recursion. Logo was created in 1967 for educational use, more so for constructivist teaching, by Daniel G.
Law of averages: The law of averages is a lay term used to express a belief that outcomes of a random event shall "even out" within a small sample. As invoked in everyday life, the "law" usually reflects bad statistics or wishful thinking rather than any mathematical principle. While there is a real theorem that a random variable will reflect its underlying probability over a very large sample, the law of averages typically assumes that unnatural short-term "balance" must occur.
Lamorna: Lamorna is a small fishing village on the Penwith peninsula in Cornwall, England. It is effectively a small congregation of houses clustered around a beautiful boat place. At the end of the nineteenth century it became popular as a subject among many of the painters of the Newlyn School, including, particularly, the artist S J "Lamorna" Birch, who lived there in a small cottage.
Outline of linguistics: Linguistics is the scientific study of natural language. Someone who engages in this study is called a linguist. Linguistics can be theoretical or applied. The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to linguistics:
Outline of literature: Literature is prose, written or oral, including fiction and non-fiction, drama and poetry. See also: outline of poetry. The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to literature:
List of basic law topics: Law is the set of rules and principles (laws) by which a society is governed, through enforcement by governmental authorities. Law is also the field which concerns the creation and administration of laws, and includes any and all legal systems. The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to law:
Lindow Man: Lindow Man, also known as Lindow II and Pete Marsh, is the name given to the naturally-preserved bog body of a Late Iron Age man, discovered in a peat bog at Lindow Moss, Mobberley side of the border with Wilmslow, Cheshire, northwest England, on 1 August 1984 by commercial peat-cutters. Lindow Man is not the only bog body to have been found in the moss; Lindow Woman was discovered the year before, and other body parts have been recovered. Lindow Man was a healthy male in his mid-20s.
Linspire: Linspire, previously known as LindowsOS, was a commercial operating system based on Debian GNU/Linux and later Ubuntu. Linspire was published by Linspire, Inc. and focused on ease-of-use, targeting home PC users. The last stable release of Linspire was version 6.0, which was released in October 2007. On July 1, 2008, Linspire stockholders elected to change the company's name to Digital Cornerstone, and all assets were acquired by Xandros.
Lombok: Lombok (population 2,950,105 in 2005) is an island in West Nusa Tenggara province, Indonesia. It is part of the chain of the Lesser Sunda Islands, with the Lombok Strait separating it from Bali to the west and the Alas Strait between it and Sumbawa to the east. It is roughly circular, with a "tail" to the southwest, about 70 km across and a total area of about 4,725 km (1,825 sq mi). The provincial capital and largest city on the island is Mataram.
AvtoVAZ: AvtoVAZ is a Russian automobile manufacturer. Formerly known as VAZ: Volzhsky Avtomobilny Zavod (, ), and better known to the world as Lada, was set up in the late 1960s in collaboration with Fiat. Current company name contains abnormal semantic pleonasm: AvtoVAZ literally stands for Avtomobilniy Volzhsky Avtomobilny Zavod. It is 25% owned by French carmaker Renault.
Lego: Lego (trademarked in capitals as LEGO) is a line of construction toys manufactured by the Lego Group, a privately held company based in Billund, Denmark. The company's flagship product, Lego consists of colorful interlocking plastic bricks and an accompanying array of gears, minifigures and various other parts. Lego bricks can be assembled and connected in many ways, to construct such objects as vehicles, buildings, and even working robots.
Lundy: Lundy is the largest island in the Bristol Channel, lying 12 miles (19 km) off the coast of Devon, England, approximately one third of the distance across the channel between England and Wales. It measures about 3 miles (5 km) by 0.75 miles (1.2 km). Lundy gives its name to a British sea area and is one of the islands of England. As of 2007, there was a resident population of 28 people, including volunteers.
Li people: The Li or Hlai are a minority Chinese ethnic group, sometimes colloquially known as "Sai" or "Say. " They form one of the 56 ethnic groups officially recognized by the People's Republic of China. 94% of the Li live off the southern coast of mainland China on Hainan, where they are the largest minority ethnic group. As well as Hainan, the Li people are also found in some islands in the South China Sea area that are considered Filipino territory.
Lycos: Lycos is a search engine and web portal with broadband entertainment content.
Luminance: Luminance is a photometric measure of the luminous intensity per unit area of light travelling in a given direction. It describes the amount of light that passes through or is emitted from a particular area, and falls within a given solid angle. The SI unit for luminance is candela per square metre (cd/m). A non-SI term for the same unit is the "nit". The CGS unit of luminance is the stilb, which is equal to one candela per square centimetre or 10 kcd/m.
Luton Town F.C.: Luton Town Football Club is an English professional football club based since 1905 at Kenilworth Road, Luton, Bedfordshire. The club is competing in the fifth tier of English football, the Conference National, for the first time during the 2009-10 season. Formed in 1885, it was the first club in southern England to turn professional, making payments to players as early as 1890 and turning fully professional a year later.
Lycanthropy: Lycanthropy is the ability or power of a human being to undergo transformation into a wolf, or to gain wolf-like characteristics. The term comes from Greek lykthropos (): , lkos ("wolf") + , thrpos ("human"). The word lycanthropy is sometimes used generically for any transformation of a human into animal form, though the precise term for that is technically "therianthropy". Sometimes, "zoanthropy" is used instead of "therianthropy".
Lunar calendar: A lunar calendar is a calendar that is based on cycles of the moon phase. The only widely used purely lunar calendar is the Islamic calendar or Hijri calendar, whose year always consists of 12 lunar months. A feature of a purely lunar year, on the Islamic calendar model, is that the calendar ceases to be linked to the seasons, and drifts each solar year by 11 to 12 days, and comes back to the position it had in relation to the solar year approximately every 33 Islamic years.
Lykaion: Lykaion is a mountain in Arcadia, sacred to Zeus Lycaeus, who was said to have been born and brought up on it, and the home of Pelasgus and his son Lycaon, who is said to have founded the ritual of Zeus practiced on its summit. This seems to have involved a human sacrifice, and a feast in which the man who received the portion of a human victim was changed to a wolf, as Lycaon had been after sacrificing a child. The altar of Zeus consists of a great mound of ashes with a retaining wall.
LORAN: LORAN (LOng RAnge Navigation) is a terrestrial radio navigation system using low frequency radio transmitters that uses multiple transmitters to determine the location and speed of the receiver. The current version of LORAN in common use is LORAN-C, which operates in the low frequency portion of the EM spectrum from 90 to 110 kHz. Many nations use the system, including the United States, Japan, and several European countries.
Locksmithing: Locksmithing began as the science and art of making and locks. A lock is a mechanism that secures buildings, rooms, cabinets, objects, or other storage facilities. A key is often used to open a lock. Means of opening a lock may include two-factor authentication for greater security, such as requiring both something you know (a combination) and something you have. Locksmithing is one of the earliest forms of security engineering.
Lunatic: A lunatic is a commonly used term for a person who is mentally ill, dangerous, foolish, unpredictable,: a condition once called lunacy.
Lake Eyre: Lake Eyre (pronounced "air") is the lowest point in Australia, at approximately 15 m (49 ft) below sea level, and, on the rare occasions that it fills, it is the largest lake in Australia. It is the focal point of the vast Lake Eyre Basin and is found some 700 km (435 mi) north of Adelaide.
Linear timecode: Linear (or Longitudinal) Timecode (LTC) encodes SMPTE timecode data as a Manchester-Biphase encoded audio signal. The audio signal is commonly recorded on a VTR track or other storage media. Each frame is terminated by a 'sync word' which has a special predefined sync relationship with any video or film content. A special bit in the linear timecode frame, the 'biphase mark correction' bit, ensures that there are an even number of AC transitions in each timecode frame.
Lunisolar calendar: A lunisolar calendar is a calendar in many cultures whose date indicates both the moon phase and the time of the solar year. If the solar year is defined as a tropical year then a lunisolar calendar will give an indication of the season; if it is taken as a sidereal year then the calendar will predict the constellation near which the full moon may occur.
John Strutt 3rd Baron Rayleigh: John William Strutt, 3rd Baron Rayleigh OM (12 November 1842 - 30 June 1919) was an English physicist who, with William Ramsay, discovered the element argon, an achievement for which he earned the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1904. He also discovered the phenomenon now called Rayleigh scattering, explaining why the sky is blue, and predicted the existence of the surface waves now known as Rayleigh waves.
Lactantius: Lucius Caelius (or Caecilius?) Firmianus Lactantius was an early Christian author (ca. 240 - ca. 320).
Labarum: The labarum was a vexillum (military standard) that displayed the "Chi-Rho" symbol, formed from the first two Greek letters of the word "Christ" Chi and Rho. It was first used by the Roman emperor Constantine I. Since the vexillum consisted of a flag suspended from the crossbar of a cross, it was ideally suited to symbolize crucifixion.
Laconia: Laconia (), also known as Lacedaemonia, is a prefecture of Greece. Its administrative capital is Sparti (Sparta) and its main towns and cities are Amykles, Areopoli, Gytheio, Molaoi, Monemvasia, Mystras, Voies and Oinountas. It encompasses Cape Malea and Cape Tainaron and a large part of the Mani Peninsula.
Leonids: The Leonids (lee-uh-nids) are a prolific meteor shower associated with the comet Tempel-Tuttle. The Leonids get their name from the location of their radiant in the constellation Leo: the meteors appear to radiate from that point in the sky. Earth moves through the meteoroid stream of left from the passages of a comet.
Laoco n: Laoco,the son of Acoetes is a figure in Greek and Roman mythology, a Trojan priest of Poseidon,, whose rules he had defied, either by marrying and having sons, or by having committed an impiety by making love with his wife in the presence of a cult image in a sanctuary.
Lyonel Feininger: Lyonel Charles Feininger (July 17, 1871 - January 13, 1956) was a German-American painter and caricaturist.
Lavrentiy Beria: Lavrentiy Pavlovich Beria (or Beriya) was a Soviet politician, and chief of the Soviet security and secret police apparatus under Stalin. By the end of the Great Purge he had become deputy head and subsequently head of the NKVD and carried out a purge of the NKVD itself. Beria was most influential during and after World War II, and immediately after Stalin's death on March 5 1953, when as First Deputy Prime Minister he carried out a brief campaign of liberalization.
Limburg an der Lahn: Limburg an der Lahn is the district seat of Limburg-Weilburg in Hesse, Germany.
La Espero: "La Espero" ("The Hope") is a poem written by L. L. Zamenhof (1859-1917), the initiator of the Esperanto language. The song is often used as the anthem of Esperanto, and is now usually sung to a triumphal march composed by Ficien Menu de Mil (although there is an earlier, less martial tune created in 1891 by Claes Adelskd, as well as a number of others less well-known). It is sometimes referred to as the hymn of the Esperanto movement.
Life: Life is a characteristic that distinguishes objects that have self-sustaining biological processes from those that do not-either because such functions have ceased, or else because they lack such functions and are classified as ". " In biology, the science of living organisms, "life" is the condition which distinguishes active organisms from inorganic matter, including the capacity for growth, functional activity and the continual change preceding death.
Canadian 1 dollar coin: The Canadian 1 dollar coin (commonly called Loonie) is a gold-coloured, bronze-plated, one-dollar coin introduced in 1987. It bears images of a common loon, a well-known Canadian bird, on the reverse, and of Queen Elizabeth II on the obverse. The design for the coin was meant to be a voyageur theme, similar to the country's previous one dollar/silver dollar coin, but the master dies were lost by the courier service while in transit to the Royal Canadian Mint in Winnipeg.
Laminar flow: Laminar flow, sometimes known as streamline flow, occurs when a fluid flows in parallel layers, with no disruption between the layers. In fluid dynamics, laminar flow is a flow regime characterized by high momentum diffusion and low momentum convection. It is the opposite of turbulent flow. In nonscientific terms laminar flow is "smooth," while turbulent flow is "rough.
Logical positivism: Logical positivism (also called logical empiricism and neo-positivism) is a school of philosophy that combines empiricism - the idea that observational evidence is indispensable for knowledge of the world - with a version of rationalism incorporating mathematical and logico-linguistic constructs and deductions in epistemology. Logical positivism grew from the discussions of a group called the "First Vienna Circle" which gathered at the Caf Central before World War I.
Lorentz transformation: In physics, the Lorentz transformation, named after the Dutch physicist Hendrik Lorentz, describes how, according to the theory of special relativity, two observers' varying measurements of space and time can be converted into each other's frames of reference. It reflects the surprising fact that observers moving at different velocities report different distances, passage of time, and in some cases even different orderings of events.
Luanda: Luanda (formerly spelled Loanda) is the capital and largest city of Angola. Located on Angola's coast with the Atlantic Ocean, Luanda is both Angola's chief seaport and administrative center and has a population of at least 5 million (2008). It is also the capital city of Luanda Province. Luanda is located at 85018S 131404E; / ;8.83833 13.23444; / -8.83833; 13.23444 (-8.83833, 13.23444).
Luminiferous aether: In the late 19th century, "luminiferous aether" (or "ether"), meaning light-bearing aether, was the term used to describe a medium for the propagation of light. The word aether stems via Latin from the Greek , from a root meaning to kindle, burn, or shine. It signifies the substance which was thought in ancient times to contain the manipulative forces beyond control. Later theories, though not including general relativity were formulated without the concept of aether.
LAME: LAME is a free software application used to encode audio into the lossy MP3 file format.
Basis linear algebra: Basis vector redirects here. For basis vector in the context of crystals, see crystal structure. In linear algebra, a basis is a set of vectors that, in a linear combination, can represent every vector in a given vector space or free module, and such that no element of the set can be represented as a linear combination of the others. In other words, a basis is a linearly independent spanning set, or more simply put a "coordinate system".
Linear algebra: Linear algebra is a branch of mathematics concerned with the study of vectors, with families of vectors called vector spaces or linear spaces, and with functions which input one vector and output another, according to certain rules. These functions are called linear maps or linear transformations and are often represented by matrices. Linear algebra is central to modern mathematics and its applications.
Labia majora: The labia majora" are two prominent longitudinal cutaneous folds which extend downward and backward from the mons pubis to the perineum and form the lateral boundaries of the cleft of venus, which contains the labia minora, interlabial sulci, clitoral hood, clitoral glans, frenulum clitoridis, the Hart's Line, and the vulval vestibule, which contains the external openings of the urethra and the vagina.
Labia minora: The labia minora or nymphae are two longitudinal cutaneous folds on the human vulva. They are situated between the labia majora, and extend from the clitoris obliquely downward, laterally, and backward on either side of the vulval vestibule, ending between bottom of the vulval vestibule and the labia majora. In the virgin the posterior ends of the labia minora are usually joined across the middle line by a fold of skin, named the frenulum labiorum pudendi or fourchette.
Leopold von Sacher-Masoch: Leopold Ritter von Sacher-Masoch (27 January 1836 - 9 March 1895) was an Austrian writer and journalist, who gained renown for his romantic stories of Galician life. The term masochism is derived from his name. During his lifetime, Sacher-Masoch was well-known as a man of letters, often compared to Turgenev, who was seen by some as a potential successor to Goethe. He was a utopian thinker who espoused socialist and humanist ideals in his fiction and non-fiction.
Leszek Miller: Leszek Miller (born July 3, 1946 in yrard) is a Polish left-wing politician, a many-year leader of the Democratic Left Alliance, Prime Minister of the government of the Republic of Poland in 2001-2004.
Lithography: Lithography (from Greek - lithos, 'stone' + - graph, 'to write') is a method for printing using a stone or a metal plate with a completely smooth surface. Invented in 1796 by Bavarian author Alois Senefelder as a low-cost method of publishing theatrical works, lithography can be used to print text or artwork onto paper or another suitable material.
Library management: Library management refers to the issues involved in managing a library.
Lee Marvin: Lee Marvin (February 19, 1924 - August 29, 1987) was an American film actor. Known for his gravelly voice, white hair and 6' 2" stature, Marvin at first did supporting roles, mostly villains, soldiers and other hardboiled characters, but after winning an Academy Award for Best Actor for his dual roles in Cat Ballou (1965), he landed more heroic and sympathetic leading roles.
English longbow: The English longbow, also called the Welsh longbow, was a powerful type of medieval longbow about 6 ft 6 in (2.0 m) long used by the English, Scots and Welsh, both for hunting and as a weapon in medieval warfare. English use of longbows was effective against the French during the Hundred Years' War, particularly at the start of the war in the battles of Crecy (1346) and Poitiers (1356), and most famously at the Battle of Agincourt (1415).
Lead Belly: Huddie William Ledbetter(January 1888 - December 6, 1949) was an iconic American folk and blues musician, notable for his strong vocals, his virtuosity on the 12-string guitar, and the songbook of folk standards he introduced. He is best known as Leadbelly or Lead Belly. Though many releases list him as "Leadbelly," he himself spelled it "Lead Belly. " This is also the usage on his tombstone, as well as of the Lead Belly Foundation.
LTJ Bukem: LTJ Bukem is the stage name used by the drum and bass musician, producer and DJ Danny Williamson. He and his record label Good Looking Records are most associated with the jazzy, atmospheric side of drum and bass music. The name "LTJ Bukem" is a contraction of "El DJ Book 'em", a nod to the Spanish for "The DJ". "Book'em" (or "Book'em Danno") is the well-known catchphrase by Steve McGarret, Senior Officer to "Danny Williams" on the television series Hawaii Five-O. Together we get "Ltj Bukem".
Lindsay Anderson: Lindsay Gordon Anderson (17 April 1923 - 30 August 1994) was an Indian-born English feature film, theatre and documentary director, film critic, and leading light of the Free Cinema movement and the British New Wave. He is most widely remembered for his 1968 film if.... , which won the Grand Prix at Cannes Film Festival.
Loch: A loch (usually spelled Lough as a name element outside Scotland), is a body of water which is either a lake or a sea inlet, which may be also a firth, fjord, estuary, strait, or bay. Sea-inlet lochs are often called sea lochs.
Leo Marks: Leopold Samuel Marks (24 September 1920 - 15 January 2001) was an English cryptographer, screenwriter and playwright.
Lower Saxony: Lower Saxony lies in north-western Germany and is second in area and fourth in population among the sixteen federal-states of Germany. In rural areas Low German is still spoken, but the number of speakers is declining. Lower Saxony borders on (from north and clockwise) the North Sea, the states of Schleswig-Holstein, Hamburg, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Brandenburg, Saxony-Anhalt, Thuringia, Hesse and North Rhine-Westphalia, and the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Liberal Party of Australia: The Liberal Party of Australia is an Australian political party. Founded a year after the 1943 federal election to replace the United Australia Party, the centre-right Liberal Party typically competes with the centre-left Australian Labor Party for political office. When in government it traditionally governs in a coalition with the National Party. In federal politics, the Liberal Party is in opposition since losing the 2007 federal election, having held power since the 1996 election.
Lung cancer: Lung cancer is a disease of uncontrolled cell growth in tissues of the lung. This growth may lead to metastasis, which is the invasion of adjacent tissue and infiltration beyond the lungs. The vast majority of primary lung cancers are carcinomas of the lung, derived from epithelial cells. Lung cancer, the most common cause of cancer-related death in men and women, is responsible for worldwide annually, as of 2004. The most common symptoms are shortness of breath, coughing, and weight loss.
Literacy: Literacy is typically described as the ability to read and write. It is a concept claimed and defined by a range of different theoretical fields. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) provides a useful and reasonably non-controversial definition of literacy--albeit one that emphasizes print texts (and doesn't include images, video, etc.
Lindisfarne: Lindisfarne is a tidal island off the north-east coast of England also known as Holy Island, the name of the civil parish. According to one place-name authority, the name originates in Old English, and means "island [of the] travellers from Lindsey", indicating that the island was settled from Lindsey, or possibly that its inhabitants travelled there. In 2001 the island had a population of 162.
Lists of office-holders: These are lists of incumbents (individuals holding offices or positions), including heads of states or of subnational entities. A historical discipline, archontology, focuses on the study of past and current incumbents. Current incumbents may also be found in the countries' articles and the list of national leaders, recent changes in 2007 in politics, and past leaders on State leaders by year and Colonial governors by year. Various articles group lists by title, function or topic: e.g.
Livonia: Livonia was once the land of the Finnic Livonians inhabiting the principal ancient Livonian County Metsepole with its center at Turaida. The most prominent ruler of ancient Livonia was Caupo of Turaida. During the Livonian Crusade, ancient Livonia was colonized by the Livonian Brothers of the Sword, later called the Livonian Order, and the name Livonia came to designate a much broader territory: Terra Mariana on the eastern coasts of the Baltic Sea, in present-day Latvia and Estonia.
Leda: Leda and similar may refer to:
Local-loop unbundling: Local loop unbundling (LLU or LLUB) is the regulatory process of allowing multiple telecommunications operators to use connections from the telephone exchange's central office to the customer's premises. The physical wire connection between customer and company is known as a "local loop", and it is owned by the incumbent local exchange carrier (also referred to as the "ILEC," "local exchange," or in the United States either a "Baby Bell" or an Independent telephone company).
Lysithea moon: Lysithea is a prograde irregular satellite of Jupiter. It was discovered by Seth Barnes Nicholson in 1938 at Mount Wilson Observatory and is named after the mythological Lysithea, daughter of Oceanus and one of Zeus' lovers. Lysithea didn't receive its present name until 1975; before then, it was simply known as Jupiter X. It was sometimes called "Demeter" from 1955 to 1975. It belongs to the Himalia group, five moons orbiting between 11 and 13 Gm from Jupiter at an inclination of about 28.3.
Leda and the Swan: Leda and the Swan is a motif from Greek mythology, in which Zeus came to Leda in the form of a swan. According to later Greek mythology, Leda bore Helen and Polydeuces, children of Zeus while at the same time bearing Castor and Clytemnestra, children of her husband Tyndareus, the King of Sparta. As the story goes, Zeus took the form of a swan and raped or seduced Leda on the same night she slept with her husband, King Tyndareus.
Lions Clubs International: Lions Clubs International (LCI) is a secular service organization with over 44,500 clubs and more than 1.3 million members in 203 countries around the world. Headquartered in Oak Brook, Illinois, United States, the organization aims to meet the needs of communities on a local and global scale.
Laches equity: Laches (f. French, lachesse, laches) is an equitable defense, or doctrine. The person invoking laches is asserting that an opposing party has "slept on its rights," and that, as a result of this delay, that other party is no longer entitled to its original claim. Put another way, failure to assert ones rights in a timely manner can result in a claim's being barred by laches. Laches is a form of estoppel for delay. In Latin, Vigilantibus non dormientibus uitas subvenit.
Legion: Legion originally described a unit of the ancient Roman army. While the word still often has military connotations, "legion" also has many other uses.
Lyman Abbott: Lyman Abbott (December 18, 1835 - October 22, 1922) was an American Congregationalist theologian, editor, and author.
Leap second: A leap second is a positive or negative one-second adjustment to the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) time scale that keeps it close to mean solar time. UTC, which is used as the basis for official time-of-day radio broadcasts for civil time, is maintained using extremely precise atomic clocks. To keep the UTC time scale close to mean solar time, UTC is occasionally corrected by an intercalary adjustment, or "leap", of one second.
Lower Mainland: The Lower Mainland is a name commonly applied to the region surrounding Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. As of 2007, 2,524,113 people live in the region; sixteen of the province's thirty most populous municipalities are located there. While the term Lower Mainland has been recorded from the earliest period of non-native settlement in British Columbia, it has never been officially defined in legal terms.
Lucius Afranius poet: Lucius Afranius was also the name of a consul of 60 BC. For others with this name, see Afranius. Lucius Afranius was an ancient Roman comic poet, who lived at the beginning of the 1st century BC. His comedies described Roman scenes and manners (the genre called comoediae togatae) and the subjects were mostly taken from the life of the lower classes (comoediae tabernariae).
Lulach: Lulach mac Gille Coemgn was King of Scots between 15 August 1057 and 17 March 1058. He appears to have been a weak king, as his nicknames suggest. He does, however, have the distinction of being the first king of Scotland of whom there are coronation details available. He was crowned in August 1057 at Scone. Lulach was the son of Gruoch of Scotland, from her first marriage to Gille Coemgn, Mormaer of Moray, and thus the stepson of Macbeth (Mac Bethad mac Findlach).
Luca Pacioli: File:Pacioli. jpg Painting of Luca Pacioli, attributed to Jacopo de' Barbari, 1495. Table is filled with geometrical tools: slate, chalk, compass, a dodecahedron model. A rhombicuboctahedron half-filled with water is suspended from the ceiling. Pacioli is demonstrating a theorem by Euclid.
Laparoscopic surgery: Laparoscopic surgery, also called minimally invasive surgery (MIS), bandaid surgery, keyhole surgery is a modern surgical technique in which operations in the abdomen are performed through small incisions (usually 0.5-1.5 cm) as compared to larger incisions needed in traditional surgical procedures. Practicioners of "open" surgery sometimes use the misleading defensive term "microscopic" surgery, which implies a small incision.
Law enforcement: Law enforcement may refer to:
London Post Office Railway: The Post Office Railway, also known as Mail Rail, was a narrow-gauge driverless private underground railway in London built by the Post Office to move mail between sorting offices. Inspired by the Chicago Tunnel Company, it was in operation from 1927 until 2003.
Lexicography: Lexicography is divided into two related disciplines: Practical lexicography is the art or craft of compiling, writing and editing dictionaries.
Libido: Libido in its common usage means sexual desire; however, more technical definitions, such as those found in the work of Carl Jung, are more general, referring to libido as the free creativeor psychicenergy an individual has to put toward personal development or individuation. Sexual desires was originally for animals to reproduce but now people are using it for their pleasure. Libido tends to be very strong in males of all species and tends to have a low threshold for its expression.
Lead and follow: In partner dancing, the two dance partners will either be the Lead or the Follow. A basic overview of the Lead and the Follow is the Lead is the Follow's guide on the dance floor. The Lead is initially responsible for detecting nuances from the Follow to help the overall structure and feel of the dance. The Lead mostly decides which ideas will be used from the couple expressed as moves, figures, rhythms, tone, and direction.
Larissa: Larissa is a city and the capital of the Thessaly periphery of Greece, and capital of the Larissa Prefecture. It is a principal agricultural centre and a national transportation hub, linked by road and rail with the port of Volos and with Thessaloniki and Athens. The population of the greater area is around 250,000, and takes in the Municipalities of Nikaia, Giannouli and other smaller suburban communities.
Lord's Prayer: The Lord's Prayer, also known as the Our Father or Pater noster, is perhaps the best-known prayer in Christianity. Two versions of it occur in the New Testament, one in the Gospel of Matthew 6:9-13 as part of the discourse on ostentation, a section of the Sermon on the Mount; and the other in the Gospel of Luke 11:2-4.
Lightworks: Lightworks was founded at the end of the 1989, by Paul Bamborough, Nick Pollock and Neil Harris. Using a control interface similar to the industry standard Steenbeck controller they produced a film editing, video editing computer based non-linear editing system. It had a number of (for its time) unique features, such as "sync slip," synchronized varispeed playback with audio scrubbing, synchronized multi-channel playback, and an object-oriented user interface with a dedicated hardware console.
Lexeme: A lexeme is an abstract unit of morphological analysis in linguistics, that roughly corresponds to a set of forms taken by a single word. For example, in the English language, run, runs, ran and running are forms of the same lexeme, conventionally written as RUN. A related concept is the lemma (or citation form), which is a particular form of a lexeme that is chosen by convention to represent a canonical form of a lexeme.
Love Parade: The Love Parade is a popular festival and parade that originated in 1989 in Berlin, Germany. It was held in Germany annually between 1989 and 2003, and then from 2006 to 2008. The 2004 and 2005 editions in Berlin and the 2009 edition in Bochum were cancelled. Internationally, spin-off Love Parades have occurred in Zurich, San Francisco, Mexico City, Acapulco, Geneva, Vienna, Cape Town, Tel Aviv, Leeds, Sydney, Santiago, Caracas, Rio de Janeiro, Oslo, Budapest.
Lost Generation: The "Lost Generation" is a term used to characterize a general feeling of disillusionment of American literary notables who lived in Europe, most notably Paris, after the First World War. Figures identified with the "Lost Generation" included authors and artists such as Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ezra Pound, Sherwood Anderson, Waldo Peirce, John Dos Passos, John Steinbeck,Erich Maria Remarque and Cole Porter.
Left-wing politics: In politics, left-wing, leftist and the Left are generally used to describe support for social change with a view towards creating a more egalitarian society. The terms Left and Right were coined during the French Revolution, referring to the seating arrangement in parliament; those who sat on the left generally supported the radical changes of the revolution, including the creation of a republic and secularization.
Los Angeles class submarine: The Los Angeles class, sometimes called the LA class or the 688 class, is a class of nuclear-powered fast attack submarines that forms the backbone of the United States submarine fleet. With 45 submarines on active-duty (and 17 retired), this class has more boats than any other nuclear powered submarine class in the world. The class was preceded by the Sturgeon class and followed by the Seawolf and Virginia classes. Except for USS Hyman G.
Lucretia: Lucretia is a legendary figure in the history of the Roman Republic. According to the story, told mainly by the Roman historian Livy and the Greek historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus (who lived in Rome at the time of the Roman Emperor Caesar Augustus), her rape by the king's son and consequent suicide were the immediate cause of the revolution that overthrew the monarchy and established the Roman Republic.
LART: LART can refer to: a StrongARM-based single board computer Luser Attitude Readjustment Tool
Latina disambiguation: Latina is the feminine form of the term Latino. Latina may also refer to: Province of Latina, a province in Latium (Lazio), Italy Latina, Italy, the capital of the province of Latina Latina (Madrid), a district of Madrid Latina (magazine), a monthly American magazine Valle Latina, a valley of Ciociaria in Frosinone, Lazio, Italy Barrio de La Latina (Madrid), a neighbourhood in Madrid Lingua latina or Latin
Lightweight Directory Access Protocol: The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, or LDAP, is an application protocol for querying and modifying data using directory services running over TCP/IP. A directory is a set of objects with attributes organized in a logical and hierarchical manner. A simple example is the telephone directory, which consists of a list of names (of either persons or organizations) organized alphabetically, with each name having an address and phone number associated with it.
Latino demonym: The demonyms Latino and Latina (feminine), are defined in English language dictionaries as: "a person of Latin-American or Spanish-speaking descent. " "A Latin American. " "A person of Hispanic, especially Latin-American, descent, often one living in the United States.
Lynx programming language: Lynx is a programming language for large distributed networks, using remote procedure calls. It was developed by the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1984 for the Charlotte multicomputer operating system. In 1986 at the University of Rochester Lynx was ported to the Chrysalis operating system running on a BBN Butterfly multiprocessor.
Lynx web browser: Lynx is a text-only Web browser for use on cursor-addressable character cell terminals. It is released as Free software under the GNU General Public License. Supported protocols are Gopher, HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, WAIS, and NNTP.
L'H pital's rule: In calculus, l'Hital's rule (also called Bernoulli's rule) uses derivatives to help evaluate limits involving indeterminate forms. Application (or repeated application) of the rule often converts an indeterminate form to a determinate form, allowing easy evaluation of the limit.
Latin America: Latin America is a region of the Americas where Romance languages (i.e. , those derived from Latin) - particularly Spanish, Portuguese, and variably French - are primarily spoken. Latin America has an area of approximately 21,069,501 km (7,880,000 sq mi), almost 3.9% of the Earth's surface or 14.1% of its land surface area. As of 2008, its population was estimated at more than 569 million.
Lexicology: Lexicology (from lexiko-, in the Late Greek lexikon) is that part of linguistics which studies words, their nature and meaning, words' elements, relations between words, words groups and the whole lexicon. The term first appeared in the 1820s, though there were lexicologists in essence before the term was coined.
Lake Abitibi: Lake Abitibi is a lake in northeastern Ontario and western Quebec, Canada. The lake is separated in two distinct portions by a short narrows, making it actually 2 lakes. Its total area is 931 km, and net area 903 km. The lake is shallow and studded with islands. Its shores and vicinity are covered with small timber. Its outlet is the Abitibi River which empties into James Bay through the Moose River.
Ligature: Ligature may refer to: Ligature (medicine) Ligature (music), a characteristic notation style of the Medieval and Renaissance periods of music history Ligature (musical instrument), a device used to attach a mouthpiece to a woodwind instrument Elastic Ligature (orthodontic) Typographic ligature Ligature strangulation Ligature Design Symposium (University of Florida)
Leukemia: Leukemia or leukaemia (British and Canadian English; Greek leukos ', "white"; aima ', "blood") is a cancer of the blood or bone marrow characterized by an abnormal increase of blood cells, usually leukocytes. Leukemia is a broad term covering a spectrum of diseases. In turn, it is part of the even broader group of diseases called hematological neoplasms.
Length: In geometric measurements, length most commonly refers to the longest dimension of an object. In certain contexts, the term "length" is reserved for a certain dimension of an object along which the lenth is measured. For example it is possible to cut a length of a wire which is shorter than wire thickness. Another example is FET transistors, in which the channel width may be larger than channel length.
Louis Ginzberg: Rabbi Louis Ginzberg was a Talmudist of the twentieth century. He was born on November 28, 1873, in Kovno, Lithuania; he died on November 11, 1953, in New York City.
List of newspapers: Below are lists of newspapers organized by continent.
Left-arm unorthodox spin: Left-arm unorthodox spin is a type of bowling in the sport of cricket using the hand wrist. Left-arm unorthodox spin bowlers uses a wrist hand action to spin the ball which turns from off to leg side of the cricket pitch. The direction of turn is the same as that of a traditional right handed off spin bowler, however, the ball will usually turn more sharply due to the spin being imparted predominantly by the wrist.
Lansing Michigan: Lansing is the capital city of the U.S. state of Michigan, and the state's sixth largest city. It is located about 80 miles (130 km) west-northwest of Detroit and is mostly in Ingham County, although small portions of the city extend into Eaton County. As of the July 1, 2008 Census Bureau estimate, it has a population of 113,968 and a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) population of 454,035.
Louis IX of France: Louis IX (25 April 1214 - 25 August 1270), commonly Saint Louis, was King of France from 1226 until his death. He was also styled Louis II, Count of Artois from 1226 to 1237. Born at Poissy, near Paris, he was a member of the House of Capet, the son of Louis VIII and Blanche of Castile. He worked with the Parlement of Paris in order to improve the professionalism of his administration in regards to legal actions.
Larousse Gastronomique: Larousse Gastronomique is an encyclopedia of gastronomy. The majority of the book is French cuisine that contains French dishes, cooking techniques, and recipes. Many non-French dishes and ingredients are mentioned and (in later editions) these entries increased.
Linear B: Linear B is a syllabic script that was used for writing Mycenaean Greek, an early form of Greek. It predated the Greek alphabet by several centuries (ca. 13th but perhaps as early as late 15th century BC) and seems to have died out with the fall of Mycenaean civilization. Most of the tablets inscribed in Linear B were found in Knossos, Cydonia, Pylos, Thebes and Mycenae. The succeeding period, known as the Greek Dark Ages, provides no evidence of the use of writing.
Laurence of Canterbury: Laurence (sometimes Lawrence or Laurentius) (died 2 February 619 AD) was the second Archbishop of Canterbury. He was a member of the Gregorian mission sent from Italy to England to convert the Anglo-Saxons to Christianity, although the date of his arrival is disputed. He was consecrated archbishop by his predecessor, Augustine of Canterbury during Augustine's lifetime, in order to ensure continuity in the office.
LEO computer: The British LEO I (Lyons Electronic Office I) was the first computer used for commercial business applications. Designed by Oliver Standingford and Raymond Thompson of J. Lyons and Co. , and modelled closely on the Cambridge EDSAC, LEO I ran its first business application in 1951. In 1954 Lyons formed LEO Computers Ltd to market LEO I and its successors LEO II and LEO III to other companies.
Ludwig Ritter von K chel: Ludwig Alois Ferdinand Ritter von Khel (January 14, 1800 - June 3, 1877) was a musicologist, writer, composer, botanist and publisher. He is best known for cataloguing the works of Mozart and originating the 'K-numbers' by which they are known (K for Khel). Born in the town of Stein, Lower Austria, he studied law in Vienna, and for fifteen years was tutor to the four sons of Archduke Charles of Austria.
Louis XIV of France: Louis XIV (5 September 1638 - 1 September 1715), known as the Sun King, was King of France and of Navarre. His reign, from 1643 to his death in 1715, began at the age of four and lasted seventy-two years, three months, and eighteen days, and is the longest documented reign of any European monarch. Louis began personally governing France in 1661 after the death of his prime minister, the Italian Cardinal Mazarin.
Leet: leet, also known as eleet or leetspeak, is an alternative alphabet for the English language that is used primarily on the Internet. It uses various combinations of ASCII characters to replace Latinate letters. For example, leet spellings of the word leet include 1337 and l33t; eleet may be spelled 31337 or 3l33t. The term leet is derived from the word elite. The leet alphabet is a specialized form of symbolic writing.
Leaf by Niggle: "Leaf by Niggle" is a short story written by J. R. R. Tolkien in 1938-39 and first published in the Dublin Review in January 1945. It can be found, most notably, in Tolkien's book titled Tree and Leaf, and in other places (including the collections The Tolkien Reader, Poems & Stories, A Tolkien Miscellany, and Tales from the Perilous Realm).
Lois Lane: Lois Joanne Lane-Kent is a fictional character, the primary love interest of Superman in the comic books of DC Comics. Created by writer Jerry Siegel and artist Joe Shuster, she first appeared in Action Comics #1 (June 1938). Lois is Superman's chief romantic interest and, in the current DC continuity, his wife. Like Superman's alter ego Clark Kent, she is a reporter for the Metropolis newspaper, The Daily Planet.
Linker computing: In computer science, a linker or link editor is a program that takes one or more objects generated by a compiler and combines them into a single executable program. In IBM mainframe environments such as OS/360 this program is known as a linkage editor. On Unix variants the term loader is often used as a synonym for linker. Because this usage blurs the distinction between the compile-time process and the run-time process, this article will use linking for the former and loading for the latter.
Legendre symbol: The Legendre symbol or quadratic character is a function introduced by Adrien-Marie Legendre in 1798 during his partly successful attempt to prove the law of quadratic reciprocity. The symbol has served as the prototype for innumerable higher power residue symbols; other extensions and generalizations include the Jacobi symbol, the Kronecker symbol, the Hilbert symbol and the Artin symbol. It is one of the earliest examples of a homomorphism.
List of algorithms: The following is a list of algorithms described in Wikipedia. This list is manually updated and additions of links to existing pages are welcome. See also the list of data structures, list of algorithm general topics and list of terms relating to algorithms and data structures. If you intend to describe a new algorithm, please read first, then add a link to your article and a one-line description here.
Linear prediction: Linear prediction is a mathematical operation where future values of a discrete-time signal are estimated as a linear function of previous samples. In digital signal processing, linear prediction is often called linear predictive coding (LPC) and can thus be viewed as a subset of filter theory. In system analysis (a subfield of mathematics), linear prediction can be viewed as a part of mathematical modelling or optimization.
Laconia incident: The Laconia incident happened in the Atlantic Ocean during World War II. On 12 September 1942, RMS Laconia, carrying some 80 civilians, 268 British Army soldiers, about 1,800 Italian prisoners of war, and 160 Polish soldiers (on guard), was struck and sunk by a torpedo from Kriegsmarine submarine U-156 off the coast of west Africa.
L on Theremin: Ln Theremin was a Russian inventor. He is most famous for his invention of the theremin, the first electronic musical instrument. He is also the inventor of interlace, a technique of improving the picture quality of a video signal, widely used in video and television technology. His invention of "The Thing", an espionage tool, is considered a predecessor of RFID technology.
Lusitania: Lusitania was an ancient Roman province including approximately all of modern Portugal south of the Douro river and part of modern Spain (the present autonomous community of Extremadura and a small part of the province of Salamanca). It was named after the Lusitani or Lusitanian people. Its capital was Emerita Augusta, and it was initially part of the Roman Republic province of Hispania Ulterior, before becoming a province of its own in the Roman Empire.
Limited-stop: In public transport, a limited-stop bus, tram or train service is a service that operates along the same route as a local bus service, but omits certain stops in order to offer a faster trip between the places served. The term is normally used on routes with a mixture of fast and slow services. Additionally there may be a "semi-fast" service with more stops than a "fast" service, but fewer than a "slow" service.
La Malinche: La Malinche (c. 1496 or c. 1505 - c. 1529, some sources give 1550), known also as Malintzin, Malinali or Do Marina, was a woman from the Mexican Gulf Coast, who played an active and powerful role in the Spanish conquest of Mexico, acting as interpreter, advisor and intermediary for Hern Cort. She was also a mistress to Cort and gave birth to his first son, who is considered one of the first Mestizos. In Mexico today, La Malinche remains iconically potent.
Leto: In Greek mythology, Lt is a daughter of the Titans Coeus and Phoebe:. Leto was the titan goddess of being unseen. Kos claimed her birthplace. In the Olympian scheme of things, Zeus is the father of her twins, Apollo and Artemis, the Letoides, which Leto conceived after her hidden beauty accidentally caught the eyes of Zeus.
Limburg: Limburg may refer to:
Leon: Leon, Ln or Le may refer to:
Ligand: In coordination chemistry, a ligand is an ion, or molecule that binds to a central metal-atom to form a coordination complex. The bonding between metal and ligand generally involves formal donation of one or more of the ligand's electron pairs. The metal-ligand bonding can range from covalent to more ionic. Furthermore, the metal-ligand bond order can range from one to three. Ligands are viewed as Lewis bases, although rare cases are known involving Lewis acidic "ligands.
Lincos language: Lincos (an abbreviation of the Latin phrase lingua cosmica) is an artificial language first described in 1960 by Dr. Hans Freudenthal in his book Lincos: Design of a Language for Cosmic Intercourse, Part 1. It is a language designed to be understandable by any possible intelligent extraterrestrial life form, for use in interstellar radio transmissions. Freudenthal considered that such a language should be easily understood by beings not acquainted with any Earthling syntax or language.
Limburg Netherlands: Limburg pronunciation is the southernmost of the twelve provinces of the Netherlands. It is located in the southeastern part of the country and bordered by the province of Gelderland to the north, Germany to the east, Belgium to the south and part of the west, and the Dutch province of North Brabant partly to the west. Its capital is Maastricht. Limburg has a highly distinct character.
Lascaux: Lascaux is the setting of a complex of caves in southwestern France famous for its Paleolithic cave paintings. The original caves are located near the village of Montignac, in the Dordogne dartement. They contain some of the best-known Upper Paleolithic art. These paintings are estimated to be 17,000 years old. They primarily consist of realistic images of large animals, most of which are known from fossil evidence to have lived in the area at the time.
Lute: Lute can refer generally to any plucked string instrument with a neck (either fretted or unfretted) and a deep round back, or more specifically to an instrument from the family of European lutes. The European lute and the modern Near-Eastern oud both descend from a common ancestor via diverging evolutionary paths. The lute is used in a great variety of instrumental music from the early renaissance to the late baroque eras.
Lex Luthor: Alexander Joseph "Lex" Luthor is a fictional character, a supervillain who appears in comic books published by DC Comics. He is the archenemy of Superman and first appeared in Action Comics #23, and was created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. Luthor is described as "a power-mad, evil scientist" of high intelligence and incredible technological prowess. His goals typically center on killing Superman, usually as a stepping stone to world domination.
Lech Wa sa: Lech Wasa (born 29 September 1943) is a Polish politician and trade-union and human-rights activist. A charismatic leader, he co-founded Solidarity (Solidarno), the Soviet bloc's first independent trade union, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1983, and served as President of Poland 199095. Wasa was an electrician by trade, with no higher education. Soon after beginning work at the Gdask (then, "Lenin") Shipyards, he became a trade-union activist.
Lester Bangs: Leslie Conway "Lester" Bangs (December 13, 1948 - April 30, 1982) was an American music journalist, author and musician. He wrote for Creem and Rolling Stone magazines, and has been called one of the "most influential" voices in rock criticism.
Lydia Kavina: Lydia Kavina (born 8 September 1967) is a Russian theremin virtuosa, and is currently the leading performing musician on the instrument. The grandniece of Ln Theremin, Kavina was born in Moscow and began studying the instrument under the direction of Theremin when she was nine years old. Five years later, she gave her first theremin concert, which marked the beginning of a musical career that has so far led to more than 1000 theatre, radio, and television performances around the world.
Laplace transform: In mathematics, the Laplace transform is a widely used integral transform. It has many important applications in mathematics, physics, engineering, and probability theory. The Laplace transform is related to the Fourier transform, but whereas the Fourier transform resolves a function or signal into its modes of vibration, the Laplace transform resolves a function into its moments. Like the Fourier transform, the Laplace transform is used for solving differential and integral equations.
Liberal arts college: A liberal arts college is one with a primary emphasis on undergraduate study in the liberal arts. A "liberal arts" institution can be defined as a "college or university curriculum aimed at imparting general knowledge and developing general intellectual capacities, in contrast to a professional, vocational, or technical curriculum. " Although what is known today as the liberal arts college began in Europe, the term is commonly associated with the United States.
Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam: The Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam was a separatist organization formerly based in northern Sri Lanka. Founded in May 1976, it waged a violent secessionist campaign that sought to create an independent Tamil state in the north and east of Sri Lanka. This campaign evolved into the Sri Lankan Civil War, which was one of the longest running armed conflicts in Asia until the LTTE was defeated by the Sri Lankan Military in May 2009.
Language acquisition: Language acquisition is the process by which humans acquire the capacity to perceive, produce and use words to understand and communicate. This capacity involves the picking up of diverse capacities including syntax, phonetics, and an extensive vocabulary. This language might be vocal as with speech or manual as in sign.
Little Boy: "Little Boy" was the codename of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima on August 6, 1945 by the Boeing B-29 Superfortress Enola Gay, piloted by Colonel Paul Tibbets of the 393d Bombardment Squadron, Heavy, of the United States Army Air Forces. It was the first atomic bomb to be used as a weapon. The second, the "Fat Man", was dropped three days later on Nagasaki. The weapon was developed by the Manhattan Project during World War II.
Lollardy: Lollardy was the political and religious movement of the Lollards from the mid-14th century to the English Reformation. The term Lollards refers to the followers of John Wycliffe, a prominent theologian who was dismissed from the University of Oxford in 1381 for criticism of the traditional church, especially his doctrine on the Eucharist. Its demands were primarily for reform of Western Christianity.
Left Behind series: Left Behind is a series of 16 best-selling novels by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins, dealing with Christian dispensationalist End Times: pretribulation, premillennial, Christian eschatological viewpoint of the end of the world. The primary conflict of the series is the members of the Tribulation Force against the Global Community and its leader Nicolae Carpathiathe Antichrist. Left Behind is also the title of the first book in the series.
Ludwig Von Drake: Ludwig von Drake is one of Walt Disney's cartoon and comic book characters. He was first introduced on September 24, 1961, as the presenter (and singer of "The Spectrum Song") in the cartoon An Adventure in Color, part of the first show of Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color on NBC. Ludwig is a V.I.P. member of the Mickey Mouse Club. Said to be an uncle of Donald Duck, he was supposedly named after either Ludwig von Mises or Ludwig van Beethoven.
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome: Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is a rare autoimmune disorder that affects voltage-gated calcium channels on the pre-synaptic membrane of the nerve-muscle junction. The inhibition of the voltage-gated calcium channels prevents acetylcholine from being released from the presynaptic terminal and the subsequent stimulation of the post-synaptic terminal which would lead to muscle contraction.
Lausanne: Lausanne is a city in Romandy, the French-speaking part of Switzerland, situated on the shores of Lake Geneva, and facing ian-les-Bains and with the Jura mountains to its north-west. Lausanne is located 62 km (39 mi) northeast of Geneva. It is the capital of the canton of Vaud and of the district of Lausanne.
Loyalty program: Loyalty programs are structured marketing efforts that reward, and therefore encourage, loyal buying behavior behavior which is potentially of benefit to the firm. In marketing generally and in retailing more specifically, a loyalty card, rewards card, points card, advantage card, or club card is a plastic or paper card, visually similar to a credit card or debit card, that identifies the card holder as a member in a loyalty program. Loyalty cards are a system of the loyalty business model.
Los Altos California: Los Altos is a city at the southern end of the San Francisco Peninsula, in the San Francisco Bay Area. The city is in Santa Clara County, California, United States. The population was 27,693 according to the 2000 census. It is one of the wealthiest places in the United States. Most of the city's growth occurred between 1950 and 1980. Originally an agricultural town with many summer cottages, Los Altos is now an affluent bedroom community. Los Altos has several distinctive features.
Lilith: Lilith is believed to have originated as a female Mesopotamian storm demon associated with wind and was thought to be a bearer of disease, illness, and death. The figure of Lilith first appeared in a class of wind and storm demons or spirits as Lilitu, in Sumer, circa 4000 BC. The phonetic name "Lilith" is traditionally thought to have originated in Ancient Israel somewhere around 700 BC, despite post-dating even to the time of Moses.
Lorenzo de' Medici: Lorenzo de' Medici (1 January 1449 - 9 April 1492) was an Italian statesman and de facto ruler of the Florentine Republic during the Italian Renaissance. Known as Lorenzo the Magnificent (Lorenzo il Magnifico) by contemporary Florentines, he was a diplomat, politician and patron of scholars, artists, and poets. His life coincided with the high point of the early Italian Renaissance; his death marked the end of the Golden Age of Florence.
Lorentz force: In physics, the Lorentz force is the force on a point charge due to electromagnetic fields.
Liqueur: A liqueur is an alcoholic beverage that has been flavored with fruit, herbs, nuts, spices, flowers, or cream and bottled with added sugar. Liqueurs are typically quite sweet; they are usually not aged for long but may have resting periods during their production to allow flavors to marry. The word liqueur comes from the Latin liquifacere (to liquefy). A distinction can be made between liqueurs and the kind of cordials that are made with fruit juice.
Lucrezia Borgia: Lucrezia Borgia (18 April 1480 - 24 June 1519) was the daughter of Rodrigo Borgia, the powerful Renaissance Valencian who later became Pope Alexander VI, and Vannozza dei Cattanei. Her brothers included Cesare Borgia, Giovanni Borgia, and Gioffre Borgia. Lucrezia's family later came to epitomize the ruthless Machiavellian politics and sexual corruption alleged to be characteristic of the Renaissance Papacy.
Lemma mathematics: In mathematics, a lemma (plural lemmata or lemmas from the Greek , "lemma" meaning "anything which is received, such as a gift, profit, or a bribe") is a proven proposition which is used as a stepping stone to a larger result rather than as a statement in-and-of itself.
List of Macintosh models grouped by CPU type: This list of Macintosh models grouped by CPU type contains all CPUs used by Apple Inc. for their Macintosh computers. It is grouped by processor family, processor model, and then chronologically by Macintosh model.
Jonathan Smeeton: Jonathan Smeeton is a British lighting designer who has also worked under the name of Liquid Len. Smeeton was the creator of "Liquid Len and the Lensmen" who provided lightshows for the band Hawkwind in the 1970s. He has also worked for groups such as The Rolling Stones, Jane's Addiction, Marilyn Manson, and WHAM!. He was name-checked in the classic Genesis tune "The Battle of Epping Forest. " ("And his friend, Liquid Len by name, Of wine, women and wandsworth fame''...
Lemmy: Ian Fraser Kilmister, better known by the stage name Lemmy, is an English singer and bass guitarist. He is best known as the founding member of the rock band Mothead. His appearance, friendly mutton chops, and gravelly voice have made him a cult icon.
Lactose: Lactose is a sugar that is found most notably in milk. Lactose makes up around 2-8% of milk (by weight), although the amount varies among species and individuals. It is extracted from sweet or sour whey. The name comes from lacte, the Latin word for milk, plus the -ose ending used to name sugars.
Median lethal dose: In toxicology, the median lethal dose, LD50 (abbreviation for Lethal Dose, 50%), LC50 (Lethal Concentration, 50%) or LCt50 (Lethal Concentration & Time) of a toxic substance or radiation is the dose required to kill half the members of a tested population after a specified test duration. LD50 figures are frequently used as a general indicator of a substance's acute toxicity. The test was created by J.W. Trevan in 1927.
Lactase: Lactase (LCT), a part of the -galactosidase family of enzymes, is a glycoside hydrolase involved in the hydrolysis of the disaccharide lactose into constituent galactose and glucose monomers. Lactase is present predominantly along the brush border membrane of the differentiated enterocytes lining the villi of the small intestine. In humans, lactase is encoded by the LCT gene. Lactase is essential for digestive hydrolysis of lactose in milk. Deficiency of the enzyme causes lactose intolerance.
Flipper cricket: The flipper is the name of a particular bowling delivery used in cricket, generally by a leg spin bowler. In essence it is a back spin ball. Squeezed out of the front of the hand with the thumb and first and second fingers, it keeps deceptively low after pitching and can accordingly be very difficult to play. The flipper is comparable to a riseball in slow-pitch softball.
Labour law: Labour law (or "labor", or "employment" law) is the body of laws, administrative rulings, and precedents which address the legal rights of, and restrictions on, working people and their organizations. As such, it mediates many aspects of the relationship between trade unions, employers and employees. In Canada, employment laws related to unionized workplaces are differentiated from those relating to particular individuals. In most countries however, no such distinction is made.
Linkin Park: Linkin Park is an American rock band from Agoura Hills, California. Formed in 1996, the band rose to international fame with their debut album, Hybrid Theory (2000), which was certified Diamond by the RIAA in 2005 and multi-platinum in several other countries. Its following studio album, Meteora (2003), continued the band's success: the album topped the Billboard 200 chart and went on to become the most successful album in the history of the Modern Rock Tracks chart.
Louis Riel: Louis David Riel (in English) was a Canadian politician, a founder of the province of Manitoba, and leader of the Mis people of the Canadian prairies. He led two resistance movements against the Canadian government and its first post-Confederation Prime Minister, Sir John A. Macdonald. Riel sought to preserve Mis rights and culture as their homelands in the Northwest came progressively under the Canadian sphere of influence. He is regarded by many as a Canadian folk hero today.
Listerine: Listerine is a brand of antiseptic mouthwash. Its original formula has notoriously strong flavor, although variations have been released that are marketed as tasting milder. The product is marketed under the slogan "Kills germs that cause bad breath". It was named after Joseph Lister who promoted the idea of sterile surgery by sterilizing instruments. Listerine is one of the most popular mouthwashes sold in the United States.
Ludo board game: Ludo (from Latin ludo, "I play") is a simple board game, similar to Tock and Sorry!, for two to four players, in which the players race their four tokens from start to finish according to dice rolls. The game is a simplification of the traditional Indian Cross and Circle game Pachisi. The game is popular in many countries and is known as "Ludi" in the Caribbean, "Fia" in Sweden and "Mens-erger-je-niet" in the Netherlands. The German game Mensch gere dich nicht is similar.
Life expectancy: Life expectancy is the expected (in the statistical sense) number of years of life remaining at a given age. It is denoted by ex, which means the average number of subsequent years of life for someone now aged x, according to a particular mortality experience. (In technical literature, this symbol means the average number of complete years of life remaining, ie excluding fractions of a year.
Lotus: Lotus may refer to: in botany: Lotus (plant), various botanical taxa Lotus (genus) Lotus Flower in music: Lotus (guitar), an instrument manufacturer Lotus (band), a 1960's pop band Lotus (rock band), a 2000's instrumental rock band Lotus (Santana album) (1974), by Santana Lotus (Elisa album) (2003), by Elisa "Lotus" (song), by R.E.M.
Lesser Poland: Lesser Poland (also Little Poland, Polish Maopolska, Latin Polonia Minor) is one of the historical regions of Poland, with capital in the city of Krak. It forms the southeastern corner of the country, and should not be confused with the modern Lesser Poland Voivodeship, which covers only a small, southern part of Lesser Poland.
Lake Nicaragua: Lake Nicaragua or Cocibolca or Granada is a vast freshwater lake in Nicaragua of tectonic origin. With an area of 8,264 km (3,191 sq mi), it is the largest lake in Central America, the 19th largest lake in the world (by area) and the 9th largest in the Americas. It is slightly smaller than Lake Titicaca. With an elevation of 32 metres (105 ft) above sea level, the lake reaches a depth of 26 metres (85 ft). It is intermittently joined by the Tipitapa River to Lake Managua.
Long-Term Capital Management: Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM) was a U.S. hedge fund which used trading strategies such as fixed income arbitrage, statistical arbitrage, and pairs trading, combined with high leverage. It failed spectacularly in the late 1990s, leading to a massive bailout by other major banks and investment houses, which was supervised by the Federal Reserve. LTCM was founded in 1994 by John Meriwether, the former vice-chairman and head of bond trading at Salomon Brothers.
Lateral consonant: Laterals are "L"-like consonants pronounced with an occlusion made somewhere along the axis of the tongue, while air from the lungs escapes at one side or both sides of the tongue. Most commonly the tip of the tongue makes contact with the upper teeth or the upper gum (the alveolar ridge) just behind the teeth. The most common laterals are approximants and belong to the class of liquids.
Liberal arts: Liberal arts are the skills derived from the Classical education curriculum.
Liquid consonant: Liquid consonants, or liquids, are trills, taps, or approximant consonants that are not classified as semivowels (glides) because they do not correspond phonetically to specific vowels . The class of liquids can be divided into lateral liquids and rhotics.
Laura Bertram: Laura Maureen Bertram (born September 5, 1978) is a Canadian actress.
Loya jirga: A loya jirga is a "grand assembly," a phrase in the Pashto language meaning "grand council. " A loya jirga is a mass meeting usually prepared for major events such as choosing a new king, adopting a constitution, or discussing important national political or emergency matters as well as disputes in the Pashtun areas of Afghanistan and Pakistan. In Afghanistan, the loya jirga was originally attended by the Pashtuns, but later included other ethnic groups.
Lou Ferrigno: Louis "Lou" Jude Ferrigno (born November 9, 1951) is an American bodybuilder and actor. Ferrigno has appeared in such television series and movies as The Incredible Hulk (playing Bruce Banner's - who was played by Bill Bixby on television - bulky alter ego, the Hulk), the bodybuilding documentary Pumping Iron, European-produced fantasy-adventures including Sinbad of the Seven Seas and Hercules, and most recently in the 2009 comedy I Love You, Man.
Leninism: Leninism is the theory and practice of the dictatorship of the proletariat, led by a revolutionary vanguard party. Theoretically, Leninism comprises the political and socialist economic theories of Vladimir Lenin, developed from Marxism, and his interpretations of Marxist theory within the agrarian Russian Empire of that time. Leninism reversed Marxs order of economics over politics, allowing for a political revolution led by a vanguard party of professional revolutionaries.
Lint software: In computer programming, lint was the name originally given to a particular program that flagged some suspicious and non-portable constructs in C language source code. The term is now applied generically to tools that flag suspicious usage in software written in any computer language. The term lint-like behavior is sometimes applied to the process of flagging suspicious language usage. lint-like tools generally perform static analysis of source code.
Legion of Merit: The Legion of Merit is a military decoration of the United States armed forces that is awarded for exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services and achievements. The decoration is issued both to United States military personnel and to military and political figures of foreign governments.
List of battles: This is an index to articles listing battles. List of battles (alphabetical) gives a global list.
Live-bearing aquarium fish: Live-bearing aquarium fish, often simply called livebearers, are fish that retain the eggs inside the body and give birth to live, free-swimming young.
Lupercal: The Lupercal (lupa, Latin for she-wolf) is a cave at the foot of the Palatine Hill in Rome, between the Temple of Apollo Palatinus and the Basilica of Santa Anastasia. In the legend of Rome's foundation, Romulus and Remus were found there by the lactating female wolf who suckled them until they were found by Faustulus.
Limp Bizkit: Limp Bizkit is an Americannu metal band from Jacksonville, Florida. The band's lineup consists of Fred Durst, Wes Borland, Sam Rivers, John Otto and DJ Lethal. Limp Bizkit has been nominated for three Grammy Awards and have won several other major awards. The band has sold an estimated 33 million albums worldwide. Formed in 1995 in Jacksonville, the band achieved mainstream success with their second studio album, Significant Other, released in 1999.
Linear congruence theorem: In modular arithmetic, the question of when a linear congruence can be solved is answered by the linear congruence theorem. If a and b are any integers and n is a positive integer, then the congruence has a solution for x if and only if b is divisible by the greatest common divisor d of a and n (denoted by gcd).
Los Alamos: Los Alamos may refer to:
Lazio: Lazio is a region of west central Italy, bordered by Tuscany, Umbria, and Marche to the north, Abruzzo and Molise to the east, Campania to the south, and the Tyrrhenian Sea to the west. It is the region of Rome, capital of Italy. Lazio is classified as being in the Centre territorial unit of Italy by the European Union, with a code of ITE.
Lee Van Cleef: Lee Van Cleef (January 9, 1925 - December 16, 1989) was an American film actor who appeared mostly in Western and action pictures. His sharp features and piercing eyes led to his casting as a villain in scores of films, though in later years he was often a film's protagonist, such as with his co-lead role as a former colonel in For a Few Dollars More.
Luigi Pirandello: Luigi Pirandello (28 June 1867 - 10 December 1936) was an Italian dramatist, novelist, and short story writer awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1934, for his "bold and brilliant renovation of the drama and the stage. " Pirandello's works include novels, hundreds of short stories, and about 40 plays, some of which are written in Sicilian.
Luke the Evangelist: Luke the Evangelist was an Early Christian writer who the Church Fathers such as Jerome and Eusebius said was the author of the Gospel of Luke and the Acts of the Apostles. The Roman Catholic Church venerates him as Saint Luke, patron saint of physicians, surgeons, students, butchers, and artists; his feast day is 18 October.
List of Latin place names in Continental Europe Ireland and Scandinavia: This list includes European countries and regions that were part of the Roman Empire, or that were given Latin place names in historical references. As a large portion of the latter were only created during the Middle Ages, often based on scholarly etiology, this is not to be confused with a list of the actual names modern regions and settlements bore during the classical era.
Lynyrd Skynyrd: Lynyrd Skynyrd is a Southern Rock band, formed in Jacksonville, Florida in 1964. The band became prominent in the Southern United States in 1973, and rose to worldwide recognition before three members and one road crew member died in an airplane crash in 1977. The band reformed in 1987 for a reunion tour with lead singer Ronnie Van Zant's younger brother Johnny as the frontman. Lynyrd Skynyrd continues to tour and record.
Lymphedema: Lymphedema, also known as lymphatic obstruction, is a condition of localized fluid retention and tissue swelling caused by a compromised lymphatic system. . The lymphatic system returns the interstitial fluid to the thoracic duct and then to the bloodstream, where it is recirculated back to the tissues. Tissues with lymphedema are at risk of infection.
Lodovico Ferrari: Lodovico Ferrari (February 2, 1522 - October 5, 1565) was an Italian mathematician. Born in Milan, Italy, grandfather, Bartholomew Ferrari was forced out of Milan to Bologna. He settled in Bologna, Italy and he began his career as the servant of Gerolamo Cardano. He was extremely bright, so Cardano started teaching him mathematics.
Laurens Janszoon Coster: Laurens Janszoon Coster (ca. 1370, Haarlem, the Netherlands - ca. 1440), or Laurens Jansz Koster, is the name of the legendary inventor of the printing press from Haarlem. Since the late 1890s, Haarlem has been willing to concede that perhaps Mainz printed earlier, in the person of Johann Gutenberg.
Law of dilution: Wilhelm Ostwalds dilution law is a relationship between the dissociation constant and the degree of dissociation of a weak electrolyte. Concerning conductivity, this results in the following relation:
Land Rover: Land Rover is a 4x4, all-terrain vehicle manufacturer, based in Gaydon, Warwickshire, England, now operated as part of the Jaguar Land Rover business owned by Tata Motors of India. Originally the term Land Rover referred to one specific vehicle, a pioneering civilian all-terrain utility vehicle launched on 30 April 1948, at the Amsterdam Motor Show, but was later used as a brand for several distinct models, all capable of four-wheel drive.
Luis Oliveira: Luis Airton Barroso Oliveira is a Brazilian-Belgian football player who spent most of his playing career in Italy.
Le Mans: Le Mans is a city in France, located on the Sarthe River. Traditionally the capital of the province of Maine, it is now the capital of the Sarthe department and the seat of the Roman Catholic diocese of Le Mans. Le Mans is a part of the Pays de la Loire region. Its inhabitants are called Manceaux and Mancelles. It has been host to the famous 24 Hours of Le Mans sports car race since 1923.
Lleida: Lleida is a city in the west of Catalonia, Spain. It had 135,919 inhabitants as of 2009, including the contiguous municipalities of Ramat and Sucs. It is the capital city of the province of the same name, as well as the largest city in that province, and the 7th Catalan town in population according to the 2006 census.
Landau: Landau or Landau in der Pfalz (pop. 41,821) is an autonomous (kreisfrei) city surrounded by the Sdliche Weinstrae ("Southern Wine Route") district of southern Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. It is a university town (since 1990), a long-standing cultural centre, and a market and shopping town, surrounded by vineyards and wine-growing villages of the Palatinate wine region. Landau lies east of the Palatinate forest, Europe's largest contiguous forest, direct on the German Wine Route.
Lois McMaster Bujold: Lois McMaster Bujold is an American author of science fiction and fantasy works. Bujold is one of the most acclaimed writers in her field, having won the prestigious Hugo Award for best novel four times, matching Robert A. Heinlein's record. Her novella "The Mountains of Mourning" won both the Hugo and Nebula Award.
Lycopene: Lycopene is a bright red carotene and carotenoid pigment and phytochemical found in tomatoes and other red fruits & vegetables, such as red carrots, watermelons and papayas (but not strawberries or cherries). Although lycopene is chemically a carotene, it has no vitamin A activity.
Liv Ullmann: Liv Johanne Ullmann (born 16 December 1938) is a Norwegian actress and film director, as well as one of the muses of the Swedish director Ingmar Bergman. A winner of the Golden Globe, Ullmann has also been nominated for the Palme d'Or, two times for the Academy Award, and a BAFTA Award.
Master of Puppets: Master of Puppets is the third album by American thrash metal band Metallica. The album was released on March 3, 1986 through Elektra Records and reached #29 on the U.S. Billboard 200 album chart and was the band's first gold record for sales of over 500,000 copies. This was done without any radio airplay or the release of a single or music video. The album eventually sold over 6 million copies in the United States and was certified 6x platinum by the RIAA.
Laika: Laika was a Soviet space dog (c. 1954-November 3, 1957) who became the first animal to orbit the Earth and the first orbital death. Little was known about the impact of spaceflight on living things at the time Laika's mission was launched. Some scientists believed humans would be unable to survive the launch or the conditions of outer space, so engineers viewed flights by non-human animals as a necessary precursor to human missions.
Ride the Lightning: Ride the Lightning is the second album by American heavy metal band Metallica, released on July 27, 1984 by Megaforce Records and re-released by Elektra Records on November 19, 1984. Ride the Lightning has sold over 5 million copies in the U.S. and have been certified 5x Platinum by the RIAA.
List of food additives Codex Alimentarius: The following is a list of food additives as organized by the Codex Alimentarius Commission. The International Numbering System numbers below (INS #) are assigned by the committee to identify each food additive. The INS numbers generally correspond to E numbers for the same compound - e.g. INS 102, Tartrazine, is also E-102. INS numbers are not unique and, in fact, one number may be assigned to a group of like compounds.
Metallica album: Metallica, informally known as The Black Album, is the fifth album by the American heavy metal band Metallica, released August 13, 1991 through Elektra Records. The album features songs that are considered today among Metallica's most well-known tracks, with songs such as "Enter Sandman", "The Unforgiven", "Nothing Else Matters", "Wherever I May Roam" and "Sad but True". It spent four consecutive weeks at number one on Billboard 200.
Load album: Load is the sixth studio album by American heavy metal band Metallica, released June 4, 1996. It spent four consecutive weeks at #1 on Billboard 200. The album has sold over 5 million copies in America, and is certified 5x Platinum by the RIAA. According to drummer Lars Ulrich: "This album and what we're doing with it - that, to me, is what Metallica are all about: exploring different things. The minute you stop exploring, then just sit down and fucking die."
S M album: S&M - an abreviation of 'Symphony and Metallica' as well as a play-on-words for sadomasochism - is a live album by the American heavy metal band Metallica, with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra conducted by the late Michael Kamen, recorded on the 21st to 22nd of April, 1999 at Berkeley Community Theatre. This is the final Metallica album to feature bassist Jason Newsted (though not his final performance or recording with the band).
Garage Inc.: Garage Inc. is a cover album by American heavy metal band Metallica, released in 1998. Over 2.5 million copies have been sold in the US as certified by the RIAA. It includes recorded cover versions of songs, all of their b-side covers released up to that point, and the entire The $5.98 E.P.: Garage Days Re-Revisited, which had gone out of print since its original release in 1987. The title is a combination of Garage Days Re-Revisited and their song Damage, Inc.
Mural: A mural is any piece of artwork painted directly on a wall, ceiling or other large permanent surface.
Microeconomics: Microeconomics (from Greek prefix micro- meaning "small" + "economics") is a branch of economics that studies how the individual parts of the economy, the household and the firms, make decisions to allocate limited resources, typically in markets where goods or services are being bought and sold.
Macroeconomics: Macroeconomics (from prefix "macr-" meaning "large" + "economics") is a branch of economics that deals with the performance, structure, behavior and decision-making of the entire economy, be that a national, regional, or the global economy. Along with microeconomics, macroeconomics is one of the two most general fields in economics. Macroeconomists study aggregated indicators such as GDP, unemployment rates, and price indices to understand how the whole economy functions.
Metallica: Metallica is an American heavy metal band from Los Angeles, California, formed in 1981. Founded when drummer Lars Ulrich posted an advertisement in a local newspaper, Metallica's line-up has primarily consisted of Ulrich, rhythm guitarist and vocalist James Hetfield and lead guitarist Kirk Hammett, while going through a number of bassists. Currently, the spot is held by Robert Trujillo.
Mack Sennett: Mack Sennett (January 17, 1880 - November 5, 1960) was a Canadian-born director and was known as the innovator of slapstick comedy in film. During his lifetime he was known at times as the "King of Comedy". His short "Wrestling Swordfish" was awarded the Academy Award for Best Live Action Short Film in 1932 and he earned an Academy Honorary Award in 1937.
Mary Pickford: Mary Pickford (April 8, 1892 - May 29, 1979) was a Canadian-born motion picture actress, co-founder of the film studio United Artists and one of the original 36 founders of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Known as "America's Sweetheart," "Little Mary" and "The girl with the curls," she was one of the Canadian pioneers in early Hollywood. Her influence in the development of film acting was enormous.
MD5: In cryptography, MD5 (Message-Digest algorithm 5) is a widely used cryptographic hash function with a 128-bit hash value. As an Internet standard, MD5 has been employed in a wide variety of security applications, and is also commonly used to check the integrity of files. However, it has been shown that MD5 is not collision resistant; as such, MD5 is not suitable for applications like SSL certificates or digital signatures that rely on this property.
Motion Picture Patents Company: The Motion Picture Patents Company (MPPC, also known as the Edison Trust), founded in December 1908, was a trust of all the major American film companies, the leading distributor and the biggest supplier of raw film, Eastman Kodak. The MPPC ended the domination of foreign films on American screens, standardized the manner in which films were distributed and exhibited in America, and improved the quality of American motion pictures by internal competition.
Manhattan disambiguation: Manhattan is a borough of New York City. Manhattan may also refer to:
Middle Ages: The Middle Ages is a period of European history covering roughly a millennium from the 5th century through to the 16th century.
Mathematics: Mathematics is the study of quantity, structure, space, and change. Mathematicians seek out patterns, formulate new conjectures, and establish truth by rigorous deduction from appropriately chosen axioms and definitions. There is debate over whether mathematical objects such as numbers and points exist naturally or are human creations. The mathematician Benjamin Peirce called mathematics "the science that draws necessary conclusions".
Median: In probability theory and statistics, a median is described as the numeric value separating the higher half of a sample, a population, or a probability distribution, from the lower half. The median of a finite list of numbers can be found by arranging all the observations from lowest value to highest value and picking the middle one. If there is an even number of observations, then there is no single middle value, so one often takes the mean of the two middle values.
Music: Music is an art form whose medium is sound. Common elements of music are pitch, rhythm, dynamics, and the sonic qualities of timbre and texture. The word derives from Greek (mousike), "(art) of the Muses". The creation, performance, significance, and even the definition of music vary according to culture and social context. Music ranges from strictly organized compositions (and their recreation in performance), through improvisational music to aleatoric forms.
Mammal: Mammals (formally Mammalia) are a class of vertebrate, air-breathing animals whose females are characterized by the possession of mammary glands while both males and females are characterized by sweat glands, hair and/or fur, three middle ear bones used in hearing, and a neocortex region in the brain. Mammals are divided into three main infraclass taxa depending how they are born. These taxa are: monotremes, marsupials and placentals.
Memory: In psychology, memory is an organism's ability to store, retain, and recall information. Traditional studies of memory began in the fields of philosophy, including techniques of artificially enhancing the memory. The late nineteenth and early twentieth century put memory within the paradigms of cognitive psychology.
Multics: Multics (Multiplexed Information and Computing Service) was an extremely influential early time-sharing operating system. The project was started in 1964. The last known running Multics installation was shut down on October 30, 2000 at the Canadian Department of National Defense in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
Mars disambiguation: Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun. Mars or MARS may also refer to: Mars (mythology), the Roman god of war Mars (astrology), a set of qualities and influences MARS (oceanography), an acronym for Monterey Accelerated Research System, a cabled-based ocean observatory in Monterey Bay, California.
Marxist film theory: Marxist film theory is one of the oldest forms of film theory. Sergei Eisenstein and many other Soviet filmmakers in the 1920s expressed ideas of Marxism through film. In fact, the Hegelian dialectic was considered best displayed in film editing through the Kuleshov Experiment and the development of montage. While this structuralist approach to Marxism and filmmaking was used, the more vociferous complaint that the Russian filmmakers had was with the narrative structure of Hollywood filmmaking.
Mouse: A mouse (plural mice) is a small mammal belonging to the order of rodents. The best known mouse species is the common house mouse (Mus musculus). It is also a popular pet. In some places, certain kinds of field mice are also common. This rodent is eaten by large birds such as hawks and eagles. They are known to invade homes for food and occasionally shelter.
Morpheme: In morpheme-based morphology, a morpheme is the smallest linguistic unit that has semantic meaning. In spoken language, morphemes are composed of phonemes (the smallest linguistically distinctive units of sound), and in written language morphemes are composed of graphemes (the smallest units of written language). The concept morpheme differs from the concept word, as many morphemes cannot stand as words on their own.
Mustelidae: Mustelidae or Mustelids (from Latin mustela, weasel), commonly referred to as the weasel family, is a family of carnivorous mammals. The Mustelidae is a diverse family and the largest in the order Carnivora, at least partly because it has in the past been a catch-all category for many early or poorly differentiated taxa.
MTV: MTV (formerly an initialism for Music Television) is an American cable television network based in New York City that launched on August 1, 1981. The original purpose of the channel was to play music videos guided by on-air hosts known as VJs. Today, MTV still plays a limited selection of music videos, but the channel primarily broadcasts a variety of popular culture and reality television shows targeted at adolescents and young adults.
Mullet: Mullet may refer to:
Minimum wage: A minimum wage is the lowest hourly, daily or monthly wage that employers may legally pay to employees or workers. Equivalently, it is the lowest wage at which workers may sell their labor. Although minimum wage laws are in effect in a great many jurisdictions, there are differences of opinion about the benefits and drawbacks of a minimum wage. Supporters of the minimum wage say that it increases the standard of living of workers and reduces poverty.
Maryland: Maryland is a state located in the Mid Atlantic region of the United States, bordering Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia to the south and west, Pennsylvania to the north, and Delaware to the east. It is comparable in size to the European country of Belgium. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, Maryland has the highest median household income of any state, having surpassed New Jersey in 2006; Maryland's median household income was $68,080 in 2007.
Model: A model (from V.L. *modellus, dim. of L. modulus "measure, standard," dim. of modus "manner, measure" - Online Etymology Dic. ) is a pattern, plan, representation (especially in miniature), or description designed to show the main object or workings of an object, system, or concept.
Minor Threat: Minor Threat was an American hardcore punk band formed in Washington, D.C. in 1980 and disbanded in 1983. The band was relatively short-lived, but had a strong influence on the hardcore punk music scene. Minor Threat's song "Straight Edge" became the eventual basis of the straight edge movement, while the band often professed their own "straight edge" ideals.
Mental event: A mental event is a particular occurrence of something going on in the mind or mind substitute. It can be a thought, a dream, a feeling, a realization, or any other mental activity. Mental events are not limited to human thought but can be associated with animal and artificial intelligence as well.
Macbeth: The Tragedy of Macbeth, commonly called Macbeth, is a play by William Shakespeare about a regicide and its aftermath. It is Shakespeare's shortest tragedy and is believed to have been written sometime between 1603 and 1607. The earliest account of a performance of what was likely Shakespeare's play is April 1611, when Simon Forman recorded seeing such a play at the Globe Theatre. It was first published in the Folio of 1623, possibly from a prompt book for a specific performance.
Michigan: Michigan is a Midwestern state of the United States of America. The name Michigan is a French adaptation of the Ojibwe word mishigama, meaning "large water" or "large lake". Michigan is the eighth most populous state in the United States. It has the longest freshwater shoreline of any political subdivision in the world, being bounded by four of the five Great Lakes, plus Lake Saint Clair.
Monopoly: In economics, a monopoly (from Greek monos / + polein / ) exists when a specific individual or an enterprise has sufficient control over a particular product or service to determine significantly the terms on which other individuals shall have access to it. Monopolies are thus characterized by a lack of economic competition for the good or service that they provide and a lack of viable substitute goods.
Mathematical induction: Mathematical induction is a method of mathematical proof typically used to establish that a given statement is true of all natural numbers. It is done by proving that the first statement in the infinite sequence of statements is true, and then proving that if any one statement in the infinite sequence of statements is true, then so is the next one.
Monopolistic competition: Monopolistic competition is a form of imperfect competition where many competing producers sell products that are differentiated from one another (that is, the products are substitutes, but, with differences such as branding, are not exactly alike). In monopolistic competition firms can behave like monopolies in the short-run, including using market power to generate profit.
Matrix: A matrix is an array or grid. An archaic usage is a breeding animal or a womb. Matrix may refer to:
Morton Downey Jr.: Morton Downey, Jr. (born Sean Morton Downey; December 9, 1933 - March 12, 2001) was an American singer, songwriter and later a television talk show host of the 1980s who pioneered the "trash TV" format.
Metaphilosophy: Metaphilosophy, derived from Greek word meta ("after", "beyond", "with") and philosopha ("love of wisdom"), is the study of the nature, aims, and methods of philosophy. This article sets out the main views on these matters, which are varied.
List of male tennis players: Players who have won more than one Grand Slam singles title or have been ranked World No.1 in singles have been put in bold font so as to stand out. Information on each player includes year of birth and death, country of origin or citizenship, and accolades which refer to singles play unless otherwise stated. Players who retired have been put in italic.
Mandolin: A mandolin is a musical instrument in the lute family (plucked, or strummed). It descends from the mandore, a soprano member of the lute family. The mandolin soundboard (the top) comes in many shapes- but generally round or teardrop-shaped, sometimes with scrolls or other projections. A mandolin may have f-holes, or a single round or oval sound hole.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology: The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) is a private research university located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. MIT has five schools and one college, containing a total of 32 academic departments, with a strong emphasis on scientific and technological research. MIT is one of two private land-grant universities and is also a sea-grant and space-grant university.
Microphotonics: Microphotonics is a branch of technology that deals with directing light on a microscopic scale. It is used in optical networking. Microphotonics employs at least two different materials with a large differential index of refraction to squeeze the light down to a small size. Generally speaking virtually all of microphotonics relies on Fresnel reflection to guide the light. If the photons reside mainly in the higher index material, the confinement is due to total internal reflection.
Microsoft Windows: Microsoft Windows is a series of software operating systems and graphical user interfaces produced by Microsoft. Microsoft first introduced an operating environment named Windows in November 1985 as an add-on to MS-DOS in response to the growing interest in graphical user interfaces (GUIs). Microsoft Windows came to dominate the world's personal computer market, overtaking Mac OS, which had been introduced previously.
Mojo African American culture: Mojo is a term commonly encountered in the African-American folk belief called hoodoo. A mojo is a type of magic charm, often of red flannel cloth and tied with a drawstring, containing botanical, zoological, and/or mineral curios, petition papers, and the like. It is typically worn under clothing.
Metaphysics: Metaphysics is a branch of philosophy that investigates principles of reality transcending those of any particular science. Cosmology and ontology are traditional branches of metaphysics. It is concerned with explaining the fundamental nature of being and the world. Someone who studies metaphysics would be called either a "metaphysician" or a "metaphysicist.
Matt Groening: Matthew Abram "Matt" Groening is an American cartoonist, screenwriter and producer. He is the creator of the comic strip Life in Hell as well as two successful television series, The Simpsons and Futurama. Groening made his first professional cartoon sale of Life in Hell to the avant-garde Wet magazine in 1978. The cartoon is still carried in 250 weekly newspapers. Life in Hell caught the attention of James L. Brooks.
Modus ponens: In classical logic, modus ponendo ponens (Latin for mode that affirms by affirming; often abbreviated to MP or modus ponens) is a valid, simple argument form sometimes referred to as affirming the antecedent or the law of detachment. It is closely related to another valid form of argument, modus tollens (not to be confused with the invalid form, "denying the consequent"). Modus ponens is a very common rule of inference, and takes the following form: If P, then Q. P. Therefore, Q.
Human spaceflight: Human spaceflight is spaceflight with a human crew and possibly passengers. This makes it unlike robotic space probes or remotely-controlled satellites. Human spaceflight is sometimes called manned spaceflight, a term now deprecated by major space agencies in favor of its gender-neutral alternative. The Soviet Union/Russia, United States and China are the only three countries to have independent human spaceflight capability.
Mendelevium: Mendelevium is a synthetic element with the symbol Md (formerly Mv) and the atomic number 101. A metallic radioactive transuranic element of the actinides, mendelevium is usually synthesized by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles and was named after Dimitri Ivanovich Mendeleev, who was responsible for the Periodic Table. Mendeleev's periodic system is the fundamental way to classify all the chemical elements .
Armed forces: The armed forces of a country are its government-sponsored defense, fighting forces, and organizations. They exist to further the foreign and domestic policies of their governing body, and to defend that body and the nation it represents from external aggressors. In some countries paramilitary forces are included in a nation's armed forces. Armed force is the use of armed forces to achieve political objectives. The study of the use of armed forces is called military science.
Modus tollens: In classical logic, modus tollens (or modus tollendo tollens) (Latin for "the way that denies by denying") has the following argument form: If P, then Q. &not;Q Therefore, &not;P. It can also be referred to as denying the consequent, and is a valid form of argument (unlike similarly-named but invalid arguments such as affirming the consequent or denying the antecedent). (See also modus ponens or "affirming the antecedent".
Microfluidics: Microfluidics deals with the behavior, precise control and manipulation of fluids that are geometrically constrained to a small, typically sub-millimeter, scale.
Mathematician: A mathematician is a person whose primary area of study and/or research is the field of mathematics. Mathematicians are concerned with particular problems related to logic, space, transformations, numbers and more general ideas which encompass these concepts.
Mersenne prime: In mathematics, a Mersenne number, named after Marin Mersenne, is a positive integer that is one less than a power of two: Some definitions of Mersenne numbers require that the exponent p be prime. A Mersenne prime is a Mersenne number that is prime. It is known that if 2 1 is prime then p is prime so it makes no difference which Mersenne number definition is used. As of October 2009, only 47 Mersenne primes are known; the largest known prime number (2 1) is a Mersenne prime.
Meaning: Meaning may refer to:
Markup language: A markup language is a system for annotating a text in a way which is syntactically distinguishable from that text. Examples include revision instructions by editors, traditionally written with a blue pencil on authors' manuscripts, typesetting instructions such those found in troff and LaTeX, and structural markers such as XML tags. Markup is typically omitted from the version of the text which is displayed for end-user consumption.
Magnesium: Magnesium is a chemical element with the symbol Mg, atomic number 12 and common oxidation number +2. It is an alkaline earth metal and the eighth most abundant element in the Earth's crust, where it constitutes about 2% by mass, and ninth in the known Universe as a whole. This preponderance of magnesium is related to the fact that it is easily built up in supernova stars from a sequential addition of three helium nuclei to carbon (which in turn is made from three helium nuclei).
Lower case: Lower case (also lower-case or lowercase), minuscule, or small letters are the smaller form of letters, as opposed to upper case or capital letters, as used in European alphabets. For example, the letter "a" is lower case while the letter "A" is upper case. Originally alphabets were written entirely in capital letters, spaced between well-defined upper and lower bounds. When written quickly with a pen, these tended to turn into rounder and much simpler forms, like uncials.
Montesquieu disambiguation: Montesquieu can refer to: Charles de Secondat, Baron de Montesquieu Several communes of France: Montesquieu, Hault, in the Hault dartement in France Montesquieu, Lot-et-Garonne, in the Lot-et-Garonne dartement Montesquieu, Tarn-et-Garonne, in the Tarn-et-Garonne dartement
Meta-ethics: In philosophy, meta-ethics is the branch of ethics that seeks to understand the nature of ethical properties, and ethical statements, attitudes, and judgments. Meta-ethics is one of the three branches of ethics generally recognized by philosophers, the others being ethical theory and applied ethics. Ethical theory and applied ethics make up normative ethics. Meta-ethics has received considerable attention from academic philosophers in the last few decades.
Subject philosophy: In philosophy, a subject is a being which has subjective experiences, subjective consciousness or a relationship with another entity. A subject is an observer and an object is a thing observed. This concept is especially important in continental philosophy, where 'the Subject' is a central term in debates over human autonomy and the nature of the self.
Media bias: Media bias refers to the bias of journalists and news producers within the mass media, in the selection of which events and stories are reported and how they are covered. The term "media bias" usually implies a pervasive or widespread bias contravening the standards of journalism, rather than the perspective of an individual journalist or article. The direction and degree of media bias in various countries is widely disputed.
Morse code: Morse code is a type of character encoding that transmits telegraphic information using rhythm. Morse code uses a standardized sequence of short and long elements to represent the letters, numerals, punctuation and special characters of a given message. The short and long elements can be formed by sounds, marks, or pulses, in on off keying and are commonly known as "dots" and "dashes" or "dits" and "dahs". The speed of Morse code is measured in words per minute (WPM) or characters per minute.
Mount Logan: Mount Logan is the highest mountain in Canada and the second-highest peak in North America, after Mount McKinley (Denali). The mountain was named after Sir William Edmond Logan, a Canadian geologist and founder of the Geological Survey of Canada (GSC). Mount Logan is located within Kluane National Park and Reserve in southwestern Yukon and is the source of the Hubbard and Logan Glaciers.
Emergency contraception: Emergency contraception (EC), or emergency postcoital contraception, refers to contraceptive measures that, if taken after sex, may prevent pregnancy. Forms of EC include: Emergency contraceptive pills (ECPs)- sometimes simply referred to as emergency contraceptives (ECs) or the "morning-after pill"- are drugs that act both to prevent ovulation or fertilization and possibly post-fertilization implantation of a blastocyst.
Muhammad: Muhammad ibn Abdullh (ca. 570/571 Mecca/ - June 8, 632), is the founder of the religion of Islam [ ] and is regarded by Muslims as a messenger and prophet of God, the greatest law-bearer in a series of Islamic prophets and by most Muslims the last prophet as taught by the . Muslims thus consider him the restorer of an uncorrupted original monotheistic faith of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus and other prophets.
Meat: Meat is animal flesh that is used as food. Most often, this means the skeletal muscle and associated fat, but it may also describe other edible tissues such as organs, livers, skin, brains, bone marrow, kidneys, or lungs. The word meat is also used by the meat packing industry in a more restrictive sensethe flesh of mammalian species (pigs, cattle, lambs, etc. ) raised and prepared for human consumption, to the exclusion of fish and poultry.
Manitoba: Manitoba /En-ca-Manitoba. oggmob/ is a Canadian prairie province with an area of 649,950 square kilometres (250,900 sq mi). The province has over 110,000 lakes, and has a largely continental climate due to its flat topography. Agriculture, found especially in the fertile southern and western parts of the province, is vital to the province's economy; other major industries are transportation, manufacturing, mining, forestry, energy, and tourism.
Monty Python: Monty Python (sometimes known as The Pythons) were a British comedy group that created the influential Monty Python's Flying Circus, a British television comedy sketch show that first aired on the BBC on 5 October 1969. Forty-five episodes were made over four series.
Married... with Children: Married... with Children or Married with Children is an American sitcom about a dysfunctional family living in Chicago that aired for 11 seasons. The show, notable for being the first prime time television series to air on Fox, debuted on April 5, 1987, and aired its final first-run broadcast on June 9, 1997. The series was created by Michael G. Moye and Ron Leavitt.
Mole: Mole may refer to:
Metre: The metre (or meter) is the basic unit of length in the International System of Units (SI). Historically, the metre was defined by the French Academy of Sciences as the length between two marks on a platinum-iridium bar, which was designed to represent one ten-millionth of the distance from the Equator to the North Pole along the Paris Meridian. In 1983, the metre was redefined as the distance travelled by light in free space in 299,792,458 of a second. The symbol for metre is m.
Mentha: Mentha (mint) is a genus of about 25 species (and many hundreds of varieties) of flowering plants in the family Lamiaceae (Mint Family). Species within Mentha have a subcosmopolitan distribution across Europe, Africa, Asia, Australia, and North America. Several mint hybrids commonly occur. Mints are aromatic, almost exclusively perennial, rarely annual, herbs. They have wide-spreading underground rhizomes and erect, square, branched stems.
Marjoram: Marjoram is a somewhat cold-sensitive perennial herb or undershrub with sweet pine and citrus flavours. In some middle-eastern countries, Marjoram is synonymous with Oregano, and there the names Sweet Marjoram and Knotted Marjoram are used to distinguish it from other plants of the genus Origanum. The name marjoram does not directly derive from the Latin word maior (major). Marjoram is indigenous to the Mediterranean area and was known to the Greeks and Romans as a symbol of happiness.
Medicine: Medicine is the art and science of healing. It encompasses a range of health care practices evolved to maintain and restore health by the prevention and treatment of illness. Contemporary medicine applies health science, biomedical research, and medical technology to diagnose and treat injury and disease, typically through medication, surgery, or some other form of therapy. The word medicine is derived from the Latin ars medicina, meaning the art of healing.
Flowering plant: The flowering plants or angiosperms (Angiospermae or Magnoliophyta) are the most diverse group of land plants. The flowering plants and the gymnosperms are the only extant groups of seed plants. The flowering plants are distinguished from other seed plants by a series of apomorphies, or derived characteristics. The ancestors of flowering plants diverged from gymnosperms around 245-202 million years ago, and the first flowering plants known to exist are from 140 million years ago.
Madagascar: Madagascar, or Republic of Madagascar, is an island nation in the Indian Ocean off the southeastern coast of Africa. The main island, also called Madagascar, is the fourth-largest island in the world, and is home to 5% of the world's plant and animal species, of which more than 80% are endemic to Madagascar. They include the lemur infraorder of primates, the carnivorous fossa, three bird families and six baobab species.
2001 Mars Odyssey: 2001 Mars Odyssey is a robotic spacecraft orbiting the planet Mars. The project was developed by NASA, and contracted out to Lockheed Martin, with an expected cost for the entire mission of US$297 million. Its mission is to use spectrometers and electronic imagers to hunt for evidence of past or present water and volcanic activity on Mars. It is hoped that the data Odyssey obtains will help answer the question of whether life has ever existed on Mars.
Malvales: Malvales is the name of an order of flowering plants. As circumscribed by APG II-system, it includes about 6000 species within nine families. The order is placed in the eurosids II, which are part of the eudicots. The plants are mostly shrubs and trees; most of its families have a cosmopolitan distribution in the tropics and subtropics with limited expansion into temperate regions.
Malpighiales: Malpighiales is one of the largest orders of flowering plants, containing about 16000 species, approximately 7.8% of the eudicots. The order is very diverse and hard to recognize except with molecular phylogenetic evidence. It is not part of any of the classification systems that are based only on plant morphology. Molecular clock calculations estimate the origin of stem group Malpighiales at around 100 Mya (million years ago) and the origin of crown group Malpighiales at about 90 Mya.
Myrtales: The Myrtales are an order of flowering plants placed as a basal group within the rosid group of dicotyledons (not a member of eurosids Ior eurosids II).
Miranda warning: A Miranda warning is a warning given by police in the United States to criminal suspects in police custody, or in a custodial situation, before they are interrogated. A custodial situation is one in which the suspect's freedom of movement is restrained (judged by the "free to leave" test), even if he is not under arrest.
Mississippian: The Mississippian is a subperiod in the geologic timescale or a subsystem of the geologic record. It is the earliest/lowermost of two subperiods of the Carboniferous period lasting from roughly 359 to 318 Ma (million years ago). As with most other geochronologic units, the rock beds that define the Mississippian are well identified, but the exact start and end dates are uncertain by a few million years.
MINIX: MINIX is a Unix-like computer operating system based on a microkernel architecture. Andrew S. Tanenbaum wrote the operating system to be used for educational purposes; MINIX also inspired the creation of the Linux kernel. Its name is a portmanteau of the words minimal and Unix. MINIX has been free and open source software since it was released under the BSD license in April 2000.
Muscular dystrophy: Muscular dystrophy (abbreviated MD) refers to a group of hereditary muscle diseases that weaken the muscles that move the human body. Muscular dystrophies are characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue.
Meiosis: In biology, meiosis is a process of reductional division in which the number of chromosomes per cell is cut in half. In animals, meiosis always results in the formation of gametes, while in other organisms it can give rise to spores. As with mitosis, before meiosis begins, the DNA in the original cell is replicated during S-phase of the cell cycle. Two cell divisions separate the replicated chromosomes into four haploid gametes or spores.
Mongols: The name Mongol specifies one or several ethnic groups, now mainly located in Mongolia, China, and Russia.
MM: MM or variations may refer to:
Mexico City: Mexico City is the current capital and largest city in the country of Mexico. It is the current seat of the Powers of the Union but the Mexican federal Congress, which is controlled by the 31 free and sovereign Mexican States, can change the location of such seat if it desires to do so. Mexico City is also known as the Federal District, a federal entity within Mexico which is not part of any one of the 31 Mexican states in particular, as it belongs to the federation.
Manga: Manga consist of comics and print cartoons (sometimes also called komikku ), in the Japanese language and conforming to the style developed in Japan in the late 19th century. In their modern form, manga date from shortly after World War II, but they have a long, complex pre-history in earlier Japanese art. In Japan people of all ages read manga.
Merlot: Merlot is a red wine grape that is used as both a blending grape and for varietal wines. The name Merlot is thought to derive from the Old French word for young blackbird, merlot, a diminutive of merle, the blackbird (Turdus merula), probably from the color of the grape. Merlot-based wines usually have medium body with hints of berry, plum, and currant.
Martin Scorsese: Martin C. Scorsese (born November 17, 1942) is an American film director, screenwriter, producer, actor, and film historian. He is the founder of the World Cinema Foundation, a recipient of the AFI Life Achievement Award for his contributions to the cinema and has won awards from the Oscars, Golden Globe, BAFTA, and Directors Guild of America.
Marcel Achard: Marcel Achard (5 July 1899, Sainte-Foy-l-Lyon, Rhe - 4 September 1974) was a French playwright and screenwriter whose popular sentimental comedies maintained his position as a highly-recognizable name in his country's theatrical and literary circles for five decades. He was elected to the Acadie Franise in 1959.
Mean Streets: Mean Streets is a 1973 drama film directed by Martin Scorsese and written by Scorsese and Mardik Martin. The film stars Harvey Keitel, Robert De Niro and David Proval. It was released by Warner Bros. on October 2, 1973. De Niro won the National Society of Film Critics award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as John "Johnny Boy" Civello.
Myasthenia gravis: Myasthenia gravis (from Greek "muscle", "weakness", and Latin gravis "serious"; abbreviated MG) is a neuromuscular disease leading to fluctuating muscle weakness and fatiguability. It is an autoimmune disorder, in which weakness is caused by circulating antibodies that block acetylcholine receptors at the post-synaptic neuromuscular junction, inhibiting the stimulative effect of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine.
Motala str m: Motala str is the river system that drains lake Vtern, the second largest lake in Sweden, into the Baltic Sea in Norrking. It is named from the city Motala where it begins. In the early 19th century, the Ga Canal was constructed in parallel with Motala str.
Microserfs: Microserfs, published by HarperCollins in 1995, is an epistolary novel by Douglas Coupland. It first appeared in short story form as the cover article for the January 1994 issue of Wired magazine and was subsequently expanded to full novel length. Set in the early 1990s, it captures the state of the technology industry before Windows 95, and predicts the dot-com bubble of the late 1990s. The novel is presented in the form of diary entries maintained on a PowerBook by the narrator, Daniel.
Mercury: Mercury commonly refers to: Mercury (element), the chemical element Mercury (planet), the planet nearest to the Sun in the Solar System Mercury (mythology), a Roman god Mercury may also refer to:
Microsoft: Microsoft Corporation is a multinational computer technology corporation that develops, manufactures, licenses, and supports a wide range of software products for computing devices. Headquartered in Redmond, Washington, USA, its most profitable products are the Microsoft Windows operating system and the Microsoft Office suite of productivity software. The company was founded in 1975, to develop and sell BASIC interpreters for the Altair 8800.
Moscow: Moscow is the capital and the most populous city and the federal subject of Russia. It is also the largest metropolitan area in Europe, and ranks among the largest urban areas in the world. Moscow is a major political, economic, cultural, religious, financial, educational, and transportation center of Russia and the world, a global city. It is also the seventh largest city proper in the world, a megacity. The population of Moscow (as of 1 September 2009) is 10,535,100.
Mediterranean Sea: The Mediterranean Sea is a sea connected to the Atlantic Ocean surrounded by the Mediterranean region and almost completely enclosed by land: on the north by Anatolia and Europe, on the south by Africa, and on the east by the Levant. The sea is technically a part of the Atlantic Ocean, although it is usually identified as a completely separate body of water.
Milgram experiment: The Milgram's experiment on obedience to authority figures was a series of social psychology experiments conducted by Yale University psychologist Stanley Milgram, which measured the willingness of study participants to obey an authority figure who instructed them to perform acts that conflicted with their personal conscience.
Monarchy: A monarchy is a form of government in which supreme power is absolutely or nominally lodged with an individual, who is the head of state, often for life or until abdication, and "is wholly set apart from all other members of the state. " The person who heads a monarchy is called a monarch. It was a common form of government in the world during ancient and medieval times. There is no clear definition of monarchy.
Miocene: The Miocene is a geological epoch of the Neogene Period and extends from about 23.03 to 5.33 million years before the present (23.03 to 5.33 Ma). The Miocene was named by Sir Charles Lyell. Its name comes from the Greek words (mein, less) and (kainos, new) and means "less recent" because it has 18% fewer modern sea invertebrates than the Pliocene. The Miocene follows the Oligocene Epoch and is followed by the Pliocene Epoch.
Monarch: A Monarch is the person who heads a monarchy, a form of government in which a country or entity is usually ruled or controlled by an individual who normally rules for life or until abdication. Monarchs may be autocrats or may be ceremonial heads of state who exercise little or no power or only reserve power, with actual authority vested in a parliament or other body.
Mouthpiece: Mouthpiece usually refers to the part of an object which comes near or in contact with one's mouth during use, such as the mouthpiece of a smoking pipe, telephone or musical instrument. It is also used figuratively and with negative connotations to indicate the role of a spokesperson or mass media venue that is used to perpetuate the views or agenda of another, as in "the newspaper became a mouthpiece for its owner's political views.
Musical instrument: A musical instrument is constructed or used for the purpose of making the sounds of music. In principle, anything that produces sound can serve as a musical instrument. The history of musical instruments dates back to the beginnings of human culture. The academic study of musical instruments is called organology.
Mr. T: Mr. T (born Laurence Tureaud; May 21, 1952) is an American actor known for his roles as B. A. Baracus in the 1980s television series The A-Team, as boxer Clubber Lang in the 1982 film Rocky III, and for his appearances as a professional wrestler. Mr. T is also well-known for his distinctive mohawk hairstyle, for wearing large amounts of gold jewelry, and for his tough guy image.
Measurement: In science, measurement is the process of obtaining the magnitude of a quantity, such as length or mass, relative to a unit of measurement, such as a meter or a kilogram. A measurement answers the general question, "how many?", as in how many miles, or millimeters, or gigahertz. As measurement is basically about counting, measurement is conducted in numbers and is quantitative, in comparison to other observations which may be made in words and are qualitative.
Mater lectionis: In the spelling of Hebrew and some other Semitic languages, matres lectionis, refers to the use of certain consonants to indicate a vowel. The letters that do this in Hebrew are aleph, he, waw (or vav) and yod (or yud). The yod and waw in particular are more often vowels than they are consonants.
Malden Island: Malden Island, sometimes called Independence Island in the nineteenth century, is a low, arid, uninhabited island in the central Pacific Ocean, about 39 km (15 sq mi) in area. It is one of the Line Islands belonging to the Republic of Kiribati. The island is chiefly notable for its "mysterious" prehistoric ruins, its once-extensive deposits of phosphatic guano (exploited by Australian interests from c.
Malm: Malm, in the southernmost province of Scania, is the third most populous city in Sweden after Stockholm and Gothenburg. Malm is the seat of Malm Municipality and the capital of Ske County. The administrative entity for most of the city is Malm Municipality which has 290,007 inhabitants in eight different localities, with 38% being of foreign backgrounds. Malm is also a bimunicipal locality, as part of it is Burl Municipality.
My Fair Lady: My Fair Lady is a musical based upon George Bernard Shaw's Pygmalion and with book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe. The story concerns Eliza Doolittle, a Cockney flower girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins, a phoneticist, so she can pass as a lady.
Motala Municipality: Motala Municipality (Motala kommun) is a municipality in tergland County in southeast Sweden. Its seat is located in the city of Motala. In 1971 Motala Municipality was formed by the amalgamation of the City of Motala with some of the adjacent rural municipalities. Three years later more entities were added, among them the former City of Vadstena. In 1980 a new Vadstena Municipality was split off.
Musical film: The musical film is a film genre in which several songs sung by the characters are interwoven into the narrative. The songs are used to advance the plot or develop the film's characters, but some musical films simply plop the songs in as unrelated "specialties" - as with Carmen Miranda's numbers. A subgenre of the musical film is the musical comedy, which includes a strong element of humour as well as the usual music, dancing and storyline.
Meroitic: Meroitic is an adjective referring to things related to the kingdom of Mero in pre-Islamic Sudan. The Meroitic period was approximately 300 BC to 400 AD. The Meroitic script was their writing system. The Meroitic language was what they spoke.
Martial arts film: For other uses see Martial arts Martial arts film is a film genre. A sub-genre of the action film, martial arts films contain numerous, extensive martial arts fight scenes between characters, usually as the films' primary appeal and entertainment value, and often as a method of storytelling and character expression and development. Martial arts are frequently featured in training scenes and other sequences in addition to fights.
Maltese language: Maltese is the national language of Malta, and a co-official language of the country alongside English, while also serving as an official language of the European Union, the only Semitic language so distinguished. Maltese is descended from Siculo-Arabic (the Arabic dialect that developed in Malta, Sicily and the rest of Southern Italy between the ninth and the fourteenth centuries).
Mormon: Mormon is a term used to describe the adherents, practitioners, followers or constituents of certain denominations within the Latter Day Saint movement. The term most often refers to a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), which is commonly called the Mormon Church. The LDS Church claims that "Mormon" should properly be applied only to its members, to avoid possible confusion with Mormon fundamentalist groups which practice plural marriage.
Masaki Kobayashi: Masaki Kobayashi ( , Kobayashi Masaaki, February 14, 1916-October 4, 1996) was a Japanese director. Among his films is Kwaidan (1965), a collection of four ghost stories drawn from by Lafcadio Hearn, each of which has a surprise ending. Kobayashi also directed The Human Condition, a trilogy on the effects of World War II on a Japanese pacifist and socialist. The total length of the films is over 9 hours. Other notable films include Harakiri (1962) and Samurai Rebellion (1967).
Municipality: A municipality is an administrative entity composed of a clearly defined territory and its population and commonly denotes a city, town, or village, or a small grouping of them. A municipality is typically governed by a mayor and a city council or municipal council. The notion of municipality includes townships but is not restricted to them. A municipality is a general-purpose district, as opposed to a special-purpose district.
Marley Marl: Marlon Williams (born September 30, 1962) better known as Marley Marl, is an American rapper and record producer, who is considered one of the most important and influential hip-hop producers in the history of hip hop.
Macedonian language: Macedonian is the official language of Republic of Macedonia and is a part of the Eastern group of South Slavic languages. Macedonian was codified in 1944, based on the Prilep-Bitola dialect. It is closely related to and shares a high degree of mutual intelligibility with the Bulgarian language and to a certain extent with the Serbo-Croatian language.
Metal: A metal is a chemical element that is a good conductor of both electricity and heat and forms cations and ionic bonds with non-metals. In chemistry, a metal is an element, compound, or alloy characterized by high electrical conductivity. In a metal, atoms readily lose electrons to form positive ions. Those ions are surrounded by delocalized electrons, which are responsible for the conductivity.
MIME: Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) is an Internet standard that extends the format of e-mail to support: Text in character sets other than ASCII Non-text attachments Message bodies with multiple parts Header information in non-ASCII character sets MIME's use, however, has grown beyond describing the content of e-mail to describing content type in general, including for the web.
Martina Hingis: Martina Hingis is a retired professional tennis player who spent a total of 209 weeks as World No. 1. She won five Grand Slam singles titles. She also won nine Grand Slam women's doubles titles, winning a calendar year doubles Grand Slam in 1998, and one Grand Slam mixed doubles title. Hingis set a series of "youngest-ever" records before ligament injuries in both ankles forced her to withdraw temporarily from professional tennis in 2002 at the age of 22.
Mehmed II: Mehmet II,(also known as el-Fti, "the Conqueror", in Ottoman Turkish, or, in modern Turkish, Fatih Sultan Mehmet; Known as Mahomet II in early modern Europe) was Sultan of the Ottoman Empire (Rm until the conquest) for a short time from 1444 to September 1446, and later from February 1451 to 1481. At the age of 21, he conquered Constantinople, bringing an end to the Byzantine Empire. Mehmet continued his conquests in Asia, with the Anatolian reunification, and in Europe, as far as Belgrade.
Mark: Mark may refer to: A marking Mark (given name), a male given name Mark (surname)
Mariana Trench: The Mariana Trench (or Marianas Trench) is the deepest known part of the world's oceans, and the lowest elevation of the surface of the Earth's crust. It is located in the western Pacific Ocean, to the east of the Mariana Islands. The trench is about 2,550 kilometres (1,580 mi) long but has a mean width of only 69 kilometres (43 mi). It reaches a maximum depth of about 11,033 metres (36,198 ft) at the Challenger Deep, a small slot-shaped valley in its floor, at its southern end.
Finnish markka: The Finnish markka was the currency of Finland from 1860 until 28 February 2002, when it ceased to be legal tender. The markka was replaced by the euro (), which had been introduced, in cash form, on 1 January 2002. The markka was divided into 100 pennies, postfixed "p"). At the point of conversion, the rate was fixed at one euro worth approximately equal to six markka, or precisely 1 = 5.94573 mk.
Mass: In physics, mass commonly refers to any of three properties of matter, which have been shown experimentally to be equivalent: inertial mass, active gravitational mass and passive gravitational mass. In everyday usage, mass is often taken to mean weight, but in scientific use, they refer to different properties. The inertial mass of an object determines its acceleration in the presence of an applied force.
Manganese: Manganese is a chemical element, designated by the symbol Mn. It has the atomic number 25. It is found as a free element in nature (often in combination with iron), and in many minerals. As a free element, manganese is a metal with important industrial metal alloy uses, particularly in stainless steels. Manganese phosphating is used as a treatment for rust and corrosion prevention on steel.
Mineral: A mineral is a naturally occurring solid formed through geological processes that has a characteristic chemical composition, a highly ordered atomic structure, and specific physical properties. A rock, by comparison, is an aggregate of minerals and/or mineraloids, and need not have a specific chemical composition. Minerals range in composition from pure elements and simple salts to very complex silicates with thousands of known forms. The study of minerals is called mineralogy.
Marble: Marble is a non foliated metamorphic rock resulting from the metamorphism of limestone, composed mostly of calcite. It is extensively used for sculpture, as a building material, and in many other applications.
Millsaps College: Millsaps College is a private liberal arts college located in Jackson, Mississippi. Founded in 1890, the college is recognized as one of the country's best private colleges dedicated to undergraduate teaching and educating the whole individual. Affiliated with the United Methodist Church, Millsaps is home to approximately 1,200 students.
Molybdenum: Molybdenum, is a Group 6 chemical element with the symbol Mo and atomic number 42. The free element, which is a silvery metal, has the sixth-highest melting point of any element. It readily forms hard, stable carbides, and for this reason it is often used in high-strength steel alloys. Molybdenum does not occur as the free metal in nature, but rather in various oxidation states in minerals.
M laren: Lake Maren (historically occasionally referred to as Lake Malar in English) is the third-largest lake in Sweden, after Lakes Vern and Vtern. Its area is 1,140 km and its greatest depth is 64 m. The lake drains, from southwest to northeast, into the Baltic Sea through Sertje kanal, Hammarbyslussen, Karl Johanslussen and Norrstr. The easternmost bay of Maren, in central Stockholm, is called Riddarfjden.
History of Macau: Macau is a Special Administrative Region (SAR) of the People's Republic of China. It was administered by Portugal for 442 years, first as a trading post, and subsequently as a Portuguese territory, until its handover to China in 1999. It was the last European territory in Asia.
Demographics of Macau: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Macau, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Macau's population is 95% Chinese, primarily Cantonese and some Hakka, both from nearby Guangdong Province. The remainder are of Portuguese or mixed Chinese-Portuguese ancestry.
Geography of Macau: Macau is a city on the southern coast of China. It is located at the south of Guangdong Province, on the tip of the peninsula formed by the Zhujiang (Pearl River) estuary on the east and the Xijiang (West River) on the west. Macau is situated 60 km west of Hong Kong and 145 km southwest of Guangzhou, the capital of Guangdong Province. It is immediately adjacent to the Zhuhai Special Economic Zone. The region comprises the Macau Peninsula and the islands of Taipa and Coloane.
Politics of Macau: Politics of Macau takes place in a framework of a political system dominated by the People's Republic of China, an own legislature, the Chief Executive as the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Munich: Munich is the capital city of Bavaria, Germany. It is located on the River Isar north of the Bavarian Alps. Munich is the third largest city in Germany, after Berlin and Hamburg. There are approximately 1.35 million people living within city limits, while the Munich Metropolitan Area is home to over 5 million people. The city's motto is "Mnchen mag Dich" (Munich Loves You). Before 2006, it was "Weltstadt mit Herz" (Cosmopolitan city with a heart).
Economy of Macau: The economy of Macau has remained one of the most open in the world since its reversion to China in 1999. Apparel exports and gambling-related tourism are mainstays of the economy. Since Macau has little arable land and few natural resources, it depends on mainland China for most of its food, fresh water, and energy imports. Japan and Hong Kong are the main suppliers of raw materials and capital goods.
Macau: The Macau Special Administrative Region, commonly known as Macau or Macao, is one of the two special administrative regions of the People's Republic of China; the other is Hong Kong. Macau lies on the western side of the Pearl River Delta, bordering Guangdong province in the north and facing the South China Sea in the east and south. The territory has thriving industries such as textiles, electronics and toys, and a notable tourist industry.
Telecommunications in Macau: Owing to Macau's population (circa 500,000) and its small market, only a few options are available for the local people on media. With the fact that radio signals, newspapers and magazines from Hong Kong are available in Macau, the local media are always a minority group in terms of sales and number of viewers.
Transport in Macau: Transport in Macau includes road, sea and air transport. Road transport is the primary mode of transport within Macau itself, as there are no railways at present. The main forms of public transport are buses and taxis. A light rail system is currently being planned. Modes of transport out of Macau include ferries to Hong Kong and mainland China from two ferry terminals, as well as helicopter service to Hong Kong. International flights are available from Macau International Airport.
People's Liberation Army Macau Garrison: Since December 20, 1999, the defense of Macau has been the responsibility of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA), which stations between 500-600 troops in the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, primarily as a symbolic presence to underscore Chinese sovereignty. The remainder of the 1,200-strong Macau garrison resides just across the Chinese border in Zhuhai.
History of the Republic of Macedonia: This article is about the history of the Republic of Macedonia. For an overview of the wider Macedonian region see History of the Region of Macedonia.
Macedonia region: Macedonia is a geographical and historical region of the Balkan peninsula in southeastern Europe. Its boundaries have changed considerably over time, but nowadays the region is considered to include parts of five Balkan countries: Greece, the Republic of Macedonia, Bulgaria, Albania and Serbia. It covers approximately 67,000 square kilometres (25,869 sq mi) and has a population of 4.76 million. Its oldest known settlements date back approximately 9,000 years.
Demographics of the Republic of Macedonia: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Republic of Macedonia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populous, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of the Republic of Macedonia: Politics of the Republic of Macedonia occurs within the framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Economy of the Republic of Macedonia: The breakup of Yugoslavia in 1991 deprived the Economy of the Republic of Macedonia, then its poorest republic (only 5% of the total federal output of goods and services), of its key protected markets and large transfer payments from the center. An absence of infrastructure, United Nations sanctions on its largest market Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and a Greek economic embargo hindered economic growth until 1996.
Telecommunications in the Republic of Macedonia: Telephones - main lines in use: 550,000 (2005) Telephones - mobile cellular: 2,079,000 (2008) Telephone system: domestic: NA international: NA Radio broadcast stations: AM 29, FM 20, shortwave 0 (1998) Radios: 410,000 (1997) Television broadcast stations: 136 (1997) Televisions: 1,890,000 (2008) Internet Service Providers (ISPs): 20 (2005) Wi-Fi coverage: 95% (2006) Internet users: 1.115.166 or 52% of the population (2009) Country code (Top level domain): MK
Geography of the Republic of Macedonia: The Republic of Macedonia is a country situated in Southeastern Europe with geographic coordinates 4150N 2200E; / ;41.833 22; / 41.833; 22, bordering Serbia, Bulgaria, Greece and Albania. The country is part of the wider region of Macedonia, from which carries its own name. It is situated in the major part of Vardar Macedonia with Serbia and Kosovo to the north, Bulgaria to the east, Greece to the south and Albania to the west.
Transport in the Republic of Macedonia: The following is a summary of the transport system of the Republic of Macedonia.
Army of the Republic of Macedonia: The Army of the Republic of Macedonia is the name of the unified armed forces of the Republic of Macedonia. The Macedonian military is a defence force consisting of an army (, Armija); an air force ( , Voeno vozduhoplovstvo); and a professional military unit, the Macedonian Special Forces (, Volci).
History of Malawi: The History of Malawi covers the area of present-day Malawi. The region was once part of the Maravi Empire. In colonial times it was known as British Central Africa and Nyasaland and was at one time part of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland. The country reached full independence, as Malawi, in 1964. Oil was first found there in the late 1800s. It was the first oil found around the world.
Politics of Malawi: Politics of Malawi takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Malawi is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. The Government of Malawi has been a multi-party democracy since 1994.
Demographics of Malawi: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Malawi, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Malawi derives its name from the Maravi, a Bantu people who came from the southern Congo about 600 years ago. On reaching the area north of Lake Malawi, the Maravi divided.
Malawi: The Republic of Malawi is a landlocked country in southeast Africa that was formerly known as Nyasaland. It is bordered by Zambia to the northwest, Tanzania to the northeast, and Mozambique on the east, south and west. The country is separated from Tanzania and Mozambique by Lake Malawi. Its size is over 118,000 km (45,560 sq mi) with an estimated population of more than\t13,900,000. Its capital is Lilongwe, the biggest city is Blantyre.
Military of Malawi: The Armed forces of Malawi are the state military organisation responsible for defending Malawi. They originated from British colonial units formed before independence in 1964.
Economy of Malawi: The economy of Malawi is predominantly agricultural, with about 90% of the population living in rural areas. The landlocked country in south central Africa ranks among the world's least developed countries. Agriculture accounts for 37% of GDP and 85% of export revenues. The economy depends on substantial inflows of economic assistance from the IMF, the World Bank, and individual donor nations.
Telecommunications in Malawi: Telephones - main lines in use: 85,000 Telephones - mobile cellular: 135,100 Telephone system: domestic: fair system of open-wire lines, microwave radio relay links, and radiotelephone communications stations international: satellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat
Foreign relations of Malawi: Malawi's former President Bakili Muluzi continued the pro-Western foreign policy established by former President Hastings Banda. It maintains excellent diplomatic relations with principal Western countries. Malawi's close relations with South Africa throughout the apartheid era strained its relations with other African nations. Following the collapse of apartheid in 1994, Malawi developed, and currently maintains, strong diplomatic relations with all African countries.
Demographics of Malaysia: The demographics of Malaysia is represented by the multiple ethnic groups that exist in this country. Malaysia's population, as of September 2008, is estimated to be 27,730,000, which makes it the 43rd most populated country in the world. Of these, 5.44 million Malaysians live in East Malaysia and 21.2 million live in Peninsular Malaysia. Malaysian population continues to grow at a rate of 2.4% per annum; about 34% of the population is under the age of 15.
Politics of Malaysia: The politics of Malaysia takes place in the framework of a federal constitutional monarchy, in which the Yang di-Pertuan Agong is head of state and the Prime Minister of Malaysia is the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the federal government and the 13 state governments. Federal legislative power is vested in the federal parliament and the 13 state assemblies.
Economy of Malaysia: Malaysia is a growing and relatively open state-oriented market economy. The state plays a significant but declining role in guiding economic activity through macroeconomic plans. In 2007, the economy of Malaysia was the 29th largest economy in the world by purchasing power parity with gross domestic product for 2007 estimated to be $357.9 billion with a growth rate of 5% to 7% since 2007 In 2009, the nominal GDP was US$191.4 billion, and the nominal per capital GDP was US$6,761.
Transport in Malawi: Transportation in Malawi is poorly developed. The country of almost 14 million has 39 airports, 6 with paved runways and 33 with unpaved runways. It has 495 miles (797 km) of railways, all narrow-gauge and about 45 percent of its roads are paved. Though it is landlocked, Malawi also has 435 miles (700 km) of waterways on Lake Malawi and along the Shire River.
Telecommunications in Malaysia: The primary regulator of telecommunications in the Malaysia is the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC). It issues licenses under the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998, the Postal Services Act 1991 and the Digital Signature Act 1997.
Transport in Malaysia: Transportation in Malaysia is varied in Peninsular Malaysia and East Malaysia. The main modes of transport in Peninsular Malaysia include buses, trains, cars and to an extent, airplanes. East Malaysia has a less developed transportation network. Most of the major cities there are connected by air routes.
Foreign relations of Malaysia: This article concerns the Foreign relations of Malaysia. Malaysia is an active member of various international organisations, including the Commonwealth of Nations, the United Nations, the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, and the Non-Aligned Movement. It has also in recent times been an active proponent of regional co-operation.
Malaysian Armed Forces: The military of Malaysia is known officially as the Malaysian Armed Forces . It consists of three branches; the Royal Malaysian Navy, the Malaysian Army and the Royal Malaysian Air Force . General (Jen) Tan Sri Dato' Sri Azizan bin Ariffin, is the Chief of Defence Forces, Malaysia.
History of the Maldives: The Maldives is a nation consisting of 26 natural atolls, comprising 1192 islands
Demographics of the Maldives: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Maldives, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populous, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Maldives comprises some 1,900 islands in the Indian Ocean. The earliest settlers were probably Dravidians from the shores of southern India and Sri Lanka. Originally the Maldivians were Buddhists who converted to Sunni Islam in the mid-12th century.
Politics of the Maldives: The politics of the Maldives take place in the framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President is the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. The President heads the executive branch and appoints the cabinet; he is nominated to a five-year term by a secret ballot of the Majlis (parliament), a nomination which must be confirmed by national referendum. The unicameral Majlis of the Maldives is composed of 50 members serving five-year terms.
Transport in the Maldives: Information on transport in the Maldives.
History of Mali: The History of Mali covers the course of events in the area now constituting the nation of Mali.
Economy of the Maldives: Tourism is the largest industry in the Maldives, accounting for 28% of GDP and more than 60% of the Maldives' foreign exchange receipts. It powered the current GDP per capita to expand 265% in the 1980s and a further 115% in the 1990s. Over 90% of government tax revenue flows in from import duties and tourism-related taxebums. Fishing is the second leading sector in the Maldives.
Mali: Mali, officially the Republic of Mali, is a landlocked country in Western Africa. Mali is the seventh largest country in Africa, bordering Algeria on the north, Niger on the east, Burkina Faso and the Ce d'Ivoire on the south, Guinea on the south-west, and Senegal and Mauritania on the west. Its size is just over 1,240,000 km with a population more than 14 million. Its capital is Bamako.
Demographics of Mali: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Mali, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Maldives: The Maldives, or Maldive Islands, officially Republic of Maldives, is an island country in the Indian Ocean formed by a double chain of twenty-six atolls stretching in a north-south direction off India's Lakshadweep islands, between Minicoy Island and Chagos Archipelago. It stands in the Laccadive Sea, about seven hundred kilometres (435 mi) south-west of Sri Lanka.
Politics of Mali: Politics of Mali takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Mali is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Telecommunications in Mali: Mali, a large, landlocked, multicultural country in West Africa, consistently ranks low in the Human Development Index. The infrastructure of Communications in Mali, while underdeveloped, is crucial to the nation.
Economy of Mali: The Economy of Mali is based to a large extent on agriculture, with an overwhelmingly rural population, many of whom are engaged in subsistence agriculture. Mali is among the ten poorest nations of the world, is one of the 37 Heavily Indebted Poor Countries, and is a major recipient of foreign aid from many sources, including multilateral organizations, and bilateral programs funded by the European Union, France, United States, Canada, Netherlands, and Germany.
Transport in Mali: Mali's transportation infrastructure is regarded as poor, even by regional standards, and deficiencies have limited economic growth and development. Nevertheless, improvements have been noted in the early 2000s. A number of road and airport projects were initiated prior to Malis hosting of the African Nations Cup football tournament in 2002.
Military of Mali: Mali's armed forces number some 7,000 and are under the control of the Minister of Armed Forces and Veterans. The Gendarmerie and local police forces (under the Ministry of Interior and Security) maintain internal security. In the sixties and seventies, Mali's army and air force relied primarily on the Soviet Union for materiel and training. A few Malians receive military training in the United States, France, and Germany. Military expenditures total about 13% of the national budget.
Foreign relations of Mali: Following independence in 1960, Mali initially followed a socialist path and was aligned ideologically with the communist bloc. But Malis foreign policy orientation became increasingly pragmatic and pro-Western over time. Since the institution of a democratic form of government in 2002, Malis relations with the West in general and the United States in particular have improved significantly. U.S. -Malian relations are described by the U.S.
Demographics of Malta: Population: 400,214 (2006 est. ) Largest Cities: Birkirkara Mosta Qormi abbar San Pawl il-Baar Sliema San wann Rabat ejtun Naxxar Age structure: 0-14 years: 17.1% (male 35,264; female 33,368) 15-64 years: 69.1% (male 139,890; female 136,767) 65 years and over: 13.7% (male 23,554; female 31,371) (2006 est. ) Population growth rate: 0.42% (2006 est. ) Birth rate: 10.22 births/1,000 population (2006 est. ) Death rate: 8.1 deaths/1,000 population (2006 est.
Politics of Malta: The politics of Malta take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Malta is the constitutional head of state with executive powers remaining with the Prime Minister of Malta who is the head of government and the cabinet. Legislative power is vested in the Parliament of Malta which consists of the President of Malta and the unicameral House of Representatives of Malta with the Speaker presiding officer of the legislative body.
Economy of Malta: The strengths of the Economy of Malta are its limestone, a favourable geographic location, and a productive labour force. Malta produces only about 20% of its food needs, has limited freshwater supplies, and has no domestic energy sources. The economy is dependent on foreign trade, manufacturing (especially electronics), tourism and financial services. In 2003, over 1.2 million tourists visited the island.
Telecommunications in Malta: This article is an overview of telecommunications in Malta.
Malta: Malta /t/, officially the Republic of Malta, is a developed southern European country and consists of an archipelago situated centrally in the Mediterranean, 93 km south of Sicily and 288 km north-east of Tunisia, with Gibraltar 1,826 km to the west and Alexandria 1,510 km to the east. Malta covers just over 300 km in land area, making it one of Europe's smallest and one of Europe's most densely populated countries. Its de facto capital is Valletta and the largest city is Birkirkara.
Transport in Malta: The transportation system in Malta is small, and the islands' small domestic system of public transport is reliant on buses and taxis, although there was a railway in the past. Malta's primary connection to other countries is its airport at Gudja.
Foreign relations of Malta: For several years after independence in 1964, Malta followed a policy of close co-operation with the United Kingdom and other NATO countries. This relationship changed with the election of the Malta Labour Party government in June 1971, led by Dom Mintoff. The NATO subheadquarters in Malta was closed at the request of the government, and the U.S. Sixth Fleet discontinued recreational visits to the country.
Demographics of the Marshall Islands: This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Marshall Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The people of the Marshall Islands are of Micronesian origin, which is traced to a combination of peoples who emigrated from Southeast Asia in the remote past.
Politics of the Marshall Islands: Politics of the Marshall Islands takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, and of an emerging multi-party system, whereby the President of the Marshall Islands is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Nitijela (Legislature). The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Communications in the Marshall Islands: Newspapers - Marshall Islands Journal: Weekly national newspaper: tabloid The Marshall Islands Journal is a dual language, once a week publication. It is the newspaper of record for the Marshall Islands.
Military of the Marshall Islands: Military branches of the Marshall Islands: no regular military forces (a coast guard may be established); Police Force Military expenditures - dollar figure: $NA Military expenditures - percent of GDP: NA% Military - note: defense is the responsibility of the United States
Marshall Islands: The Marshall Islands /rl lndz/, officially the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI), is a Micronesian nation of atolls and islands in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, just west of the International Date Line and just north of the Equator. This nation of roughly 62,000 people is located north of Nauru and Kiribati, east of the Federated States of Micronesia, and south of the U.S. territory of Wake Island, to which it lays claim.
Foreign relations of the Marshall Islands: Disputes - international: The United States and the Marshall Islands governments both claim Wake Island, which puts the United States' armed forces in the ambiguous position of defending US territory while acting as guarantor of the territorial integrity of the Republic with which the US has a Compact of Free Association.
Mass deacidification: Mass deacidification is a term used in Library and Information Science for one possible measure against the degradation of paper in old books. The goal of the process is to increase the pH of acidic paper on a large scale. Although acid-free paper has become more common, a large body of acidic paper still exists in books made after the 1850s because of its cheaper and simpler production methods.
Spam Monty Python: "Spam" is a popular Monty Python sketch, first televised in 1970. In the sketch, two customers are trying to order a breakfast from a menu that includes the processed meat product in almost every dish. The term spam (in electronic communication, and general slang) is derived from this sketch. It features Terry Jones as The Waitress, Eric Idle as Mr. Bun and Graham Chapman as Mrs. Bun.
Dead Parrot: The Dead Parrot sketch, alternatively and originally known as the Pet Shop sketch or Parrot Sketch, is a popular sketch from Monty Python's Flying Circus, and one of the most famous in the history of British television comedy. It was written by John Cleese and Graham Chapman and first performed in the eighth episode of the show's first series ("Full Frontal Nudity", 7 December 1969).
Cheese Shop sketch: The Cheese Shop is a well-known sketch from Monty Python's Flying Circus. It appears in episode 33, "Salad Days". The script for the sketch is included in the book The Complete Monty Python's Flying Circus: All the Words, Volume 2. The idea for the sketch came after a day of shooting in which John Cleese threw up repeatedly. During the drive back, Graham Chapman said that Cleese should eat something and he replied he fancied a piece of cheese.
The Funniest Joke in the World: "The Funniest Joke in the World" is the title most frequently used for written references to a Monty Python's Flying Circus comedy sketch, which is also known by two other phrases that appear within it, "Joke Warfare" and "Killer Joke", the latter being the most commonly used spoken title used to refer to it. The premise of the sketch is that the joke is so funny that anyone who reads or hears it promptly dies from laughter.
Mile: A mile is a unit of length in a number of different systems. In contemporary English, a mile most commonly refers to the statute mile of 5,280 feet, the survey mile of 5,280 survey feet (1,609.3472 meters) or the nautical mile of 1,852 meters (6,076.12 ft). The use of statute miles as a unit of measurement is largely confined to the United States and the United Kingdom.
The Spanish Inquisition Monty Python: "The Spanish Inquisition" was a series of sketches in Monty Python's Flying Circus, Series 2 Episode 2 parodying the real-life Spanish Inquisition. This episode was itself entitled "The Spanish Inquisition". The principal catchphrase in these sketches was "Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition!"
Bruces' Philosophers Song: Bruces' Philosophers Song (Bruces' Song) was a popular Monty Python song written by Eric Idle, a feature of the group's stage appearances and its recordings, and ostensibly rendered by a number of Australian university lecturers. They were all called Bruce and taught at the Philosophy Department of the University of Woolloomooloo. (Woolloomooloo is an inner suburb of Sydney. There is actually no university there, though the real-life Sydney University is not far away.
Manuscript: A manuscript or handwrit is a recording of information that has been manually created by someone or some people, such as a hand-written letter, as opposed to being printed or reproduced some other way.
Misogyny: Misogyny is hatred (or contempt) of women or girls. Misogyny comes from Greek misogunia () from misos (, hatred) and gyn (, woman). It is parallel to misandrythe hatred of men or boys. Misogyny is also comparable with (but not the same as) misanthropy which is the hatred of humanity in general. The prefix miso-, meaning hatred or to hate applies in many other words, such as misandrist, misocapny,, misarchy and misoxeny.
Maya Lin: Maya Ying Lin is an American artist and architect who is known for her work in sculpture and landscape art. Her best-known work is the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C.
Demographics of Martinique: Demographics of Martinique. Population: 436 131 (July 2006 est. ) Age structure: 0-14 years: 22,1% (male 48 988; female 47 525) 15-64 years: 67.3% (male 147 082; female 146 470) 65 years and over: 10.6% (male 20 791; female 25 275) (2006 est. ) Population growth rate: 0.72% (2006 estimate) Birth rate: 12.74 births/1,000 population (2006 est. ) Death rate: 6.48 deaths/1,000 population (2006 est. ) Net migration rate: -0.03 migrant(s)/1,000 population (2006 est.
Martinique: Martinique is an island in the eastern Caribbean Sea, with a land area of 1,128 km (436 sq mi). It is an overseas region of France, consisting of a single overseas department. To the northwest lies Dominica, to the south St Lucia, and to the southeast Barbados. As with the other overseas departments, Martinique is one of the twenty-six regions of France and an integral part of the Republic. As part of France, Martinique is part of the European Union, and its currency is the euro.
Telecommunications in Martinique: Communications in Martinique
Transport in Martinique: Martinique, like other small Caribbean islands, has no railways. As of 2000, Martinique had 2,105 km of paved highways. There are harbours at Fort-de-France and La Trinit. It has two airports, the main one being Martinique Aim Caire International Airport at Le Lamentin .
History of Mauritania: The history of Mauritania dates back to the 3rd century. Mauritania is named after the ancient Berber kingdom of Mauretania.
Politics of Martinique: Martinique is both an overseas region and overseas department of France, with the same government institutions as areas on the French mainland. The administrative center of Martinique is located in Fort-de-France, and the Prefect of Martinique is Ange Mancini as of 2007. The General Council of Martinique is composed of 45 seats whose members are elected by popular vote to serve six-year terms. The President of the General Council is Claude Lise as of 22 March 1992(1992 -03-22)
Demographics of Mauritania: Population: 3,777,876 (July 2006 est. ) Age structure: 0-15 years: 45.6% (male 726,376/female 723,013) 15-64 years: 52.2% (male 818,408/female 839,832) 65 years and over: 2.2% (male 28,042/female 41,717) (2006 est. ) Median age: total: 17 years male: 16.8 years female: 17.3 years (2006 est. ) Population growth rate: 2.88% (2006 est. ) Birth rate: 40.99 births/1,000 population (2006 est. ) Death rate: 12.16 deaths/1,000 population (2006 est.
Economy of Martinique: Economy - overview: The economy is based on trade. Agriculture accounts for about 6% of GDP and the small industrial sector for 11%. Sugar production has declined, with most of the sugarcane now used for the production of rum. Banana exports are increasing, going mostly to France. The bulk of meat, vegetable, and grain requirements must be imported, contributing to a chronic trade deficit that requires large annual transfers of aid from France.
Politics of Mauritania: The first fully democratic Presidential election since 1960 occurred on 11 March 2007. The election is the final transfer from military to civilian rule following the military coup in 2005. This is the first time the president will have been selected by ballot in the country's history. The election was won by Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi.
Economy of Mauritania: Economy - overview: A majority of the population of Mauritania still depends on agriculture and livestock for a livelihood, even though most of the nomads and many subsistence farmers were forced into the cities by recurrent droughts in the 1970s and 1980s. Mauritania has extensive deposits of iron ore, which account for almost 50% of total exports. The decline in world demand for this ore, however, has led to cutbacks in production.
Military of Mauritania: Tanks T-55 - 35 * Armored Cars Panhard AML-60/90 - 20/39 Panhard M3 - 15? Alvis Saracen - 5 Alvis Saladin - 40 * Artillery D-30 howitzers * Air defence SA-9 Gaskin short-range SAM systems (4) SA-7 Grail MANPADS (30) 57 mm AZP S-60 AA guns (2) ZPU-4 AA guns * Anti-tank guided missiles MILAN ATGM (50)
M: M is the thirteenth letter of the basic modern Latin alphabet. Its name in English is spelled em.
Mean: In statistics, mean has two related meanings: the arithmetic mean (and is distinguished from the geometric mean or harmonic mean). the expected value of a random variable, which is also called the population mean. There are other statistical measures that use samples that some people confuse with averages - including 'median' and 'mode. ' Other simple statistical analyses use measures of spread, such as range, interquartile range, or standard deviation.
Miami Dolphins: The Miami Dolphins are a professional football team based in the Miami, Florida metropolitan area. They play home games at Sun Life Stadium, in the suburb of Miami Gardens. They are headquartered at the Miami Dolphins Training Facility in Davie, Florida. The Dolphins belong to the Eastern Division of the American Football Conference (AFC) in the National Football League (NFL).
MU: Mu may refer to:
Mu-metal: Mu-metal is a nickel-iron alloy that has very high magnetic permeability. The high permeability makes mu-metal very effective at screening static or low-frequency magnetic fields, which cannot be attenuated by other methods. The name came from the Greek letter mu which represents permeability. Mu-metal can have relative permeabilities of 80,000-100,000 compared to several thousand for ordinary steel. In addition it has low coercivity and magnetostriction resulting in low hysteresis loss.
MIT License: The MIT License is a free software license originating at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), used by the MIT X Consortium. It is a permissive license, meaning that it permits reuse within proprietary software on the condition that the license is distributed with that software. The license is also GPL-compatible, meaning that the GPL permits combination and redistribution with software that uses the MIT License.
Mumbai: Mumbai, formerly called Bombay, is the capital of the Indian state of Maharashtra. Mumbai, the most populous city in India, is the second most populous city in the world, with a population of approximately 14 million. Along with the neighbouring urban areas, which includes cities of Navi Mumbai and Thane, it is one of the most populous urban regions in the world. Mumbai lies on the west coast of India and has a deep natural harbour. As of 2009, Mumbai was named an Alpha world city.
Michael Reagan: Michael Edward Reagan (born March 18, 1945) is an American radio host and Republican strategist. His nationally-syndicated radio show, The Michael Reagan Talk Show, airs on stations throughout the United States on American Family Radio, after a long stint on Radio America. Despite his successful media career, Reagan is perhaps best known as the adopted son of the late President Ronald Reagan. As of Spring 2008, Talkers Magazine estimates Reagan's audience at one million listeners.
Monastir: Monastir may refer to: Monastir, Macedonia the former name of Bitola, Republic of Macedonia. Monastir Province, Ottoman Empire (vilayet) Monastir, Italy - a village near Cagliari, Sardinia, Italy Monastir, Tunisia Monastir - Habib Bourguiba International Airport Monastir Governorate, Tunisia. See also monastery
Molecular biology: Molecular biology is the study of biology at a molecular level. The field overlaps with other areas of biology and chemistry, particularly genetics and biochemistry. Molecular biology chiefly concerns itself with understanding the interactions between the various systems of a cell, including the interactions between DNA, RNA and protein biosynthesis as well as learning how these interactions are regulated. Writing in Nature in 1961, William Astbury described molecular biology as
Demographics of Mauritius: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Mauritius, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Mauritian society includes people from many different ethnic groups. A majority of the republic's residents are the descendants of people from the Indian subcontinent.
Politics of Mauritius: Politics of Mauritius takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, in which the President is the head of state and the prime minister is the head of government. Mauritius has a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the National Assembly. The absolute power is split between two positions, the President and the Prime Minister.
Economy of Mauritius: The economy of Mauritius refers to the economic activity of the island nation of Mauritius.
Military of Mauritius: Mauritius does not have a standing army. All military, police, and security functions are carried out by 10,000 active-duty personnel under the command of the Commissioner of Police. The 8,000-member National Police Force is responsible for domestic law enforcement. The 1,500-member Special Mobile Force (SMF) and the 500-member National Coast Guard are the only two paramilitary units in Mauritius. Both units are composed of police officers on lengthy rotations to those services.
Foreign relations of Mauritius: Mauritius has strong and friendly relations with the West, as well as with India and the countries of southern and eastern Africa. It is a member of the World Trade Organization, the Commonwealth of Nations, La Francophonie, the African Union, the Southern Africa Development Community, the Indian Ocean Commission, COMESA, and the recently formed Indian Ocean Rim Association. Trade, commitment to democracy, and the country's small size are driving forces behind Mauritian foreign policy.
Mauritius: Mauritius, officially the Republic of Mauritius is an island nation off the coast of the African continent in the southwest Indian Ocean, about 900 kilometres (560 mi) east of Madagascar. In addition to the island of Mauritius, the Republic includes the islands of Cargados Carajos, Rodrigues and the Agalega Islands. Mauritius is part of the Mascarene Islands, with the French island of Rnion 200 km (120 mi) to the southwest and the island of Rodrigues 570 km (350 mi) to the northeast.
Mayotte: Mayotte, officially the Departmental Collectivity of Mayotte, is an overseas collectivity of France consisting of a main island, Grande-Terre (or Mahor), a smaller island, Petite-Terre (or Pamanzi), and several islets around these two. Mayotte is very densely populated. It is in the northern Mozambique Channel in the Indian Ocean, between northern Madagascar and northern Mozambique. The territory is geographically part of the Comoro Islands, but has been politically separate since the 1970s.
Politics of Mayotte: Politics of Mayotte takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic French overseas collectivity, whereby the President of the General Council is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Demographics of Mayotte: Population: 178,437 (July 2003 est. ) Age structure: 0-14 years: 46.5% (male 41,632; female 41,301) 15-64 years: 51.8% (male 50,373; female 42,118) 65 years and over: 1.7% (male 1,502; female 1,511) (2003 est. ) Median age: total: 16.9 years male: 18.1 years female: 15.7 years (2002) Population growth rate: 3.47% (2008 est. ) Birth rate: 42.86 births/1,000 population (2003 est. ) Death rate: 8.34 deaths/1,000 population (2003 est.
Demographics of Mexico: With a population 111,211,789 in 2009, Mexico is the most populous Spanish-speaking country in the world, the second-most populous country in Latin America after Portuguese-speaking Brazil, and the second in North America, after the United States. Throughout most of the twentieth century Mexico's population was characterized by rapid growth.
Politics of Mexico: The politics of Mexico take place in a framework of a federal presidential representative democratic republic whose government is based on a congressional system, where by the president of Mexico is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party electoral system.
History of Mexico: The history of Mexico, a country located in the southern third of North America, is at once a record of great cultural achievement and a catalogue of violent military and political struggle. First populated more than 20,000 years ago, the country produced complex indigenous civilizations before being conquered by the Spanish in the 16th Century. Since the Spanish Conquest, Mexico has struggled to fuse its long-established native cultures with European civilization.
Telecommunications in Mexico: Communications in Mexico are regulated by the Secretariat of Communication and Transportation (Secretara de Comunicaciones y Transportes or SCT), a federal executive cabinet ministry and by the Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisi Federal de Telecomunicaciones or COFETEL). Mexico's communication services market is among the largest in Latin America, liberalized in the 1990s, with the landmark privatization of Telonos de Mico (Telmex) a previously state-owned monopoly.
Economy of Mexico: The economy of Mexico is 11th largest in the world. Since the 1994 crisis, administrations have improved the country's macroeconomic fundamentals. Mexico was not significantly influenced by the recent 2002 South American crisis, and has maintained positive, although low, rates of growth after a brief period of stagnation in 2001. Moody's (in March 2000) and Fitch IBCA (in January 2002) issued investment-grade ratings for Mexico's sovereign debt.
Micronesia: Micronesia is a subregion of Oceania, comprising thousands of small islands in the western Pacific Ocean. It is distinct from Melanesia to the south, and Polynesia to the east. The Philippines and Indonesia lie to the west. The name Micronesia derives from the Greek mikros (), meaning small, and nesos (), meaning island. The term was first proposed to distinguish the region in 1831 by Jules Dumont d'Urville.
History of Moldova: Inhabited by Dacians in the antiquity and Romanized Dacians in the early Middle Ages, most of today's Moldova was part of the Principality of Moldavia from its founding in 1359 until 1812, when it was annexed (under the name Bessarabia) by the Russian Empire following one of several Russian-Turkish wars. In 1918, Bessarabia united with Romania, but in 1940 it was occupied by the Soviet Union, to become independent when the latter broke up in 1991.
Foreign relations of Mexico: The foreign relations of Mexico are directed by the President of the United Mexican States and managed through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Transportation and Communications in Mexico: Transportation and Communications in Mexico may refer to: Communications in Mexico Transportation in Mexico
Politics of Moldova: Politics of Moldova takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Economy of Moldova: Moldova is the second smallest of the former Soviet republics and the most densely populated. Industry accounts for only 20% of its labor force, while agriculture's share is more than one-third. It remains the poorest country in Europe. It is landlocked, bounded by Ukraine on the east and Romania to the west.
Telecommunications in Moldova: The telecommunications in Moldova were an obsolete state monopoly during the Moldovan SSR. In the 1990s, it slowly began to develop new services and in the 2000s telecommunications are seeing increased market value through unexpected sales.
Demographics of Moldova: The CIA World Factbook July 2008 estimate places the population of Moldova at 4,324,450. According to the 2004 Moldovan Census, 3,383,332 people lived in the areas controlled by the central government of Moldova. According to the 2004 Census in Transnistria, 555,347 people lived in the breakaway Transnistria, including the city of Bender/Tighina, and the other localities de facto controlled by Transnistrian authorities. Thus, the total population of the country in 2004 amounted to 3,938,679.
Military of Moldova: The Moldovan armed forces consist of the Ground Forces and Air and Air Defense Forces. Moldova has accepted all relevant arms control obligations of the former Soviet Union. On October 30, 1992, Moldova ratified the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, which establishes comprehensive limits on key categories of conventional military equipment and provides for the destruction of weapons in excess of those limits.
Transport in Moldova: In 1995, the main means of transportation in Moldova were railroads (1,138 km/707 mi) and a highway system (12,730 km/7,910 mi overall, including 10,973 km/6,818 mi of paved surfaces). The major railroad junctions are Chiinu, Bender, Ungheni, Ocnita (Oknitsa, in Russian), Bli, and Basarabeasca (Bessarabka, in Russian).
Foreign relations of Moldova: After achieving independence from the Soviet Union, Moldova had established relations with other European countries. A course for European Union integration and neutrality define the country's foreign policy guidelines. In 1995 the country became the first post-Soviet state admitted to the Council of Europe.
History of Monaco: The early history of Monaco is primarily concerned with the protective and strategic value of the Rock of Monaco, the area's chief geological landmark, which served first as a shelter for ancient peoples and later as a fortress. Part of Liguria's history since the fall of the Roman Empire, from the 1200s to the early 1400s the area was contested for primarily political reasons.
Moldova: Moldova /mlov/, officially the Republic of Moldova is a landlocked country in Eastern Europe, located between Romania to the west and Ukraine to the north, east and south. In antiquity, the territory of the present day country was part of Dacia, then fell under the influence of the Roman Empire. In the Middle Ages, most of the present territory of Moldova was part of the Principality of Moldavia.
Demographics of Monaco: Population: 32,671 (July 2007 est.
Monaco: Monaco /nko/, officially the Principality of Monaco, is a small sovereign city-state located in South Western Europe on the northern central coast of the Mediterranean Sea. It is surrounded on three sides by its neighbour, France, and its center is about 16 km (9.9 mi) from Italy. Its area is just under 2 km with an estimated population of almost 33,000. Monaco is the name of the country and its capital (and only) city.
Politics of Monaco: The politics of Monaco have traditionally been under the autocratic control of the Prince of Monaco, and from its founding, the principality was a monarchy ruled by the House of Grimaldi; however, with the creation of a Constitution in 1911, the Prince relinquished his autocratic rule and the principality became a constitutional monarchy. Though he remains the head of state, some of his former power is now devolved to several advisory and legislative bodies.
Midway Atoll: Midway Atoll is a 2.4 mi (6.2 km) atoll located in the North Pacific Ocean (near the northwestern end of the Hawaiian archipelago), about one-third of the way between Honolulu and Tokyo. Midway Atoll is an unorganized, unincorporated territory of the United States. It is less than 140 nmi (259 km; 161 mi) east of the International Date Line, about 2,800 nmi (5,200 km; 3,200 mi) west of San Francisco, and 2,200 nmi (4,100 km; 2,500 mi) east of Tokyo.
Transport in Monaco: Transport in Monaco
Telecommunications in Monaco: The following are some data about telecommunications in Monaco. Telephones - main lines in use: 34,000 (2005) Telephones - mobile cellular: 17,200 (2005) Telephone system: automatic telephone system domestic: NA
Economy of Monaco: This is an overview of the economy of Monaco. Monaco, situated on the French coast of the Mediterranean Sea, is a popular resort, attracting tourists to its casino and pleasant climate. The Principality has successfully sought to diversify into services and small, high-value-added, nonpolluting industries.
Military of Monaco: The Principality of Monaco, which is the world's second smallest nation, has a very limited military capability, and would depend entirely upon its larger neighbour, France, for defence in the face of an aggressive world power.
Geography of Mongolia: Mongolia is a landlocked country in Northern Asia, strategically located between China and Russia. The terrain is one of mountains and rolling plateaus, with a high degree of relief. Overall, the land slopes from the high Altay Mountains of the west and the north to plains and depressions in the east and the south. The Khiten Peak in extreme western Mongolia on the Chinese border is the highest point (4,374 meters).
Demographics of Mongolia: Nationality: noun: Mongolian(s) adjective: Mongolian Ethnic groups: Mongol 90%, Kazakh 4%, other 6% Religions: Buddhist 98%, Muslim 2%, 20,000 Christians note: previously limited religious activity because of communist regime Languages: Khalkha Mongol 90%, Turkic, Russian Literacy: definition: age 15 and over can read and write total population: 97.8% male: 98% female: 97.5%
Politics of Mongolia: Politics of Mongolia takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
Geography of Monaco: With a total area of 1.95 square kilometres (0.75 sq mi) a land border of 4.4 kilometres (2.7 mi) and a coast measuring 4.1 kilometres (2.5 mi) the Principality of Monaco is the second-smallest independent state in the world, after the Vatican City. It lies on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea, 18 kilometres (11 mi) east of Nice, France, and is surrounded on three sides by France and on the fourth by the sea into which its maritime claims extend to 22.2 kilometres (13.8 mi).
Telecommunications in Mongolia: Communications in Mongolia has been rapidly developing since the 2000s.
Transportation in Mongolia: The transportation system in Mongolia consists of a network of railways, roads, waterways, and airports.
Economy of Mongolia: Economic activity in Mongolia has traditionally been based on agriculture and the breeding of livestock. Mongolia also has extensive mineral deposits: copper, coal, molybdenum, tin, tungsten, and gold account for a large part of industrial production. Soviet assistance, at its height one-third of GDP, disappeared almost overnight in 1990-91, at the time of the dismantlement of the USSR.
Military of Mongolia: The military of Mongolia has three branches: general purpose forces, border defense forces and internal security forces. This is a peace-time structure. In case of war or war-like situations, the structure could be changed and reorganized.
Demographics of Montserrat: Population: 8,400 (2002 estimate) note: an estimated 8,000 refugees left the island following the resumption of volcanic activity in July 1995; many have returned. Pre-eruption population was 13,000 in 1994. Age structure: 0-14 years: 23.4% (male 1,062; female 1,041) 15-64 years: 65.3% (male 2,805; female 3,066) 65 years and over: 11.4% (male 537; female 484) (2003 est. ) Median age: total: 27.8 years male: 27.7 years female: 27.9 years (2002) Population growth rate: 4.5% (2003 est.
Mongolia: Mongolia is a landlocked country in East and Central Asia. It borders Russia to the north and the People's Republic of China to the south, east and west. Although Mongolia does not share a border with Kazakhstan, its western-most point is only 38 kilometres (24 mi) from Kazakhstan's eastern tip. Ulan Bator, the capital and largest city, is home to about 38% of the population. Mongolia's political system is a parliamentary republic.
Montserrat: Montserrat is a British overseas territory located in the Leeward Islands, part of the chain of islands called the Lesser Antilles in the Caribbean Sea. It measures approximately 16 km (10 miles) long and 11 km (7 miles) wide, giving 40 kilometres (25 mi) of coastline. Christopher Columbus gave Montserrat its name on his second voyage to the New World in 1493, after Montserrat mountain located in Catalonia, Spain.
Politics of Montserrat: Politics of Montserrat takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the Chief Minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Montserrat is an internally self-governing overseas territory of the United Kingdom. The United Nations Committee on Decolonization includes Montserrat on the United Nations list of Non-Self-Governing Territories. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Economy of Montserrat: Severe volcanic activity, which began in July 1995 has affected the small economy of Montserrat. A catastrophic eruption in June 1997 closed the airports and seaports, causing further economic and social dislocation. Two-thirds of the 12,000 inhabitants fled the island. Some began to return in 1998, but lack of housing limited the number. The agriculture sector continued to be affected by the lack of suitable land for farming and the destruction of crops.
Telecommunications in Montserrat: Montserrat possesses a number of telecommunications systems, including mobile and main line telephone, radio and television. The country code for Montserrat is "MS". In Montserrat, there are 4,000 telephone main lines in use, and by 1994 figures, there are 70 mobile telephones. In terms of internet there are 17 internet service providers. Montserrat possesses an AM radio station, and 2 FM stations. These serve 7,000 radios (by 1997 figures).
Transport in Montserrat: Railways: 0 km Highways: total: 269 km paved: 203 km unpaved: 66 km (1995) Waterways: none Ports and harbours: Plymouth (abandoned), Little Bay (anchorages and ferry landing), Carr's Bay Merchant marine: none (2002 est. ) Airports: One, Gerald's Airport, opened on July 11, 2005 replacing W.H. Bramble Airport which was destroyed by volcanic eruption in 1997. See also: Montserrat
History of Morocco: The Capsian culture brought Morocco into the Neolithic about 8000 BC, at a time when the Maghreb was less arid than it is today. The Berber language probably was formed at roughly the same time as agriculture, and was developed by the existing population and adopted the immigrants who arrived later. Modern DNA analysis (see link) has confirmed that various populations have contributed to the present-day gene pool of Morocco in addition to the main ethnic group which is the Amazighs/Berbers.
Geography of Morocco: The geography of Morocco spans from the Atlantic Ocean, to mountainous areas, to the Sahara (desert). Morocco is a Northern African country, bordering the North Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean Sea, between Algeria and the annexed Western Sahara. A large part of Morocco is mountainous. The Atlas Mountains are located mainly in the center and the south of the country. The Rif Mountains are located in the north of the country. Both ranges are mainly inhabited by the Berber people.
Politics of Morocco: Politics of Morocco take place in a framework of a parliamentary constitutional monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Morocco is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of parliament, the Assembly of Representatives of Morocco and the Assembly of Councillors. The Moroccan Constitution provides for a monarchy with a Parliament and an independent judiciary.
Demographics of Morocco: This article is about the demographic features of the population of Morocco, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Most Moroccans are Sunni Muslims of Berber or mixed Arab-Berber stock. Morocco was inhabited by Berbers since at least 5000 years ago.
Economy of Morocco: Morocco's economy is considered a relatively liberal economy governed by the law of supply and demand. Since 1993, the country has followed a policy of privatization of certain economic sectors which used to be in the hands of the government. Morocco has become a major player in the African economic affairs, and is the 5th African economy by GDP (PPP). Morocco was ranked the 1st African country by the Economist Intelligence Unit' quality-of-life index, ahead of South Africa and the UAE.
Telecommunications in Morocco: The following is an outline of communications technology in Morocco.
Morocco: Morocco, officially the Kingdom of Morocco ( , al-Mamlakah al-Maribiyya, Tagldit Umrruk), is a country located in North Africa. It has a population of nearly 32 million and an area just under 447,000 square kilometres (173,000 sq mi). Its capital is Rabat, and its largest city is Casablanca. Morocco has a coast on the Atlantic Ocean that reaches past the Strait of Gibraltar into the Mediterranean Sea.
Military of Morocco: The Royal Moroccan Armed Forces is the summation of the armed forces of the kingdom of Morocco. It was founded in 1956 (except the Royal Navy founded in 1960) after Morocco's independence from France and Spain. Before the French and Spanish occupation of Morocco, which started in 1912, the country's defence force was made of a regular Makhzen army, and of a less organized but much more powerful Berber tribes' militias.
Foreign relations of Morocco: Moroccos relations with foreign powers are determined by numerous factors, which are listed below:
History of Mozambique: Mozambique was a Portuguese colony, overseas province and then a member state of Portugal. It became independent from Portugal in 1975.
Transport in Morocco: There are around 56986 kilometres of roads(national, regional and provincial) in Morocco. In addition to 610,5 kilometre of highways.
Mozambique: Mozambique, officially the Republic of Mozambique, is a country in southeastern Africa bordered by the Indian Ocean to the east, Tanzania to the north, Malawi and Zambia to the northwest, Zimbabwe to the west and Swaziland and South Africa to the southwest. The area was explored by Vasco da Gama in 1498 and colonized by Portugal in 1505.
Demographics of Mozambique: The demographics of Mozambique describes the condition and overview of Mozambique's peoples. Demographic topics include basic education, health, and population statistics as well as identified racial and religious affiliations.
Geography of Mozambique: Location: Southern Africa, bordering the Mozambique Channel, between South Africa and Tanzania Geographic coordinates: Map references: Africa Area: total: 801 590 km land: 784 090 km water: 17 500 km Capital Maputo (Louren Marques) Major Cities Matola Nampula Beira Chimoio Nacala Quelimane Tete Lichinga Pemba (Porto Amelia) Other Cities Angoche (Antio Enes) Area - comparative: Belarus: slightly less than four times the size of Belarus.
Politics of Mozambique: Politics of Mozambique takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Mozambique is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Assembly of the Republic.
Military of Mozambique: The Armed Forces for the Defence of Mozambique were formed in mid August 1994 from the previous warring factions of the Mozambique Civil War, which ended in 1992. The new armed forces were formed through a commission, the Comiss Conjunta para a Forma das Fors Armadas de Defesa e Seguran de Mombique (CCFADM), chaired by ONUMOZ. The new armed forces were formed by integrating those soldiers of the former Mozambique Armed Forces (FAM) and rebel RENAMO who wished to stay in uniform.
Foreign relations of Mozambique: While allegiances dating back to the liberation struggle remain relevant, Mozambique's foreign policy has become increasingly pragmatic. The twin pillars of the policy are maintenance of good relations with its neighbors and maintenance and expansion of ties to development partners. During the 1970s and early 1980s, Mozambique's foreign policy was inextricably linked to the struggles for majority rule in Rhodesia and South Africa as well as superpower competition and the Cold War.
Marilyn Monroe: Marilyn Monroe (June 1, 1926 - August 5, 1962), born Norma Jeane Mortenson, but baptized Norma Jeane Baker, was an American actress, singer, and model. After spending much of her childhood in foster homes, Monroe began a career as a model, which led to a film contract in 1946. Her early roles were minor, but her performances in The Asphalt Jungle and All About Eve (both 1950) were well received.
Myelin: Myelin is a dielectric material that forms a layer, the myelin sheath, usually around only the axon of a neuron. It is essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system. Myelin is an outgrowth of a glial cell. Schwann cells supply the myelin for peripheral neurons, whereas oligodendrocytes, specifically of the interfascicular type, myelinate the axons of the central nervous system.
Meme: A meme is a postulated unit of cultural ideas, symbols or practices, which can be transmitted from one mind to another through writing, speech, gestures, rituals or other imitable phenomena. (The etymology of the term relates to the Greek word for "something imitated". ) Supporters of the concept regard memes as cultural analogues to genes, in that they self-replicate and respond to selective pressures.
Mebyon Kernow: Mebyon Kernow (Cornish for Sons of Cornwall, often abbreviated to MK) is a left-of-centre political party in the United Kingdom. The main objective of MK is to establish greater autonomy in Cornwall, through the establishment of a legislative Cornish Assembly. Mebyon Kernow have no MPs in the House of Commons, nor is the party present in the unelected House of Lords. In June 2009 local elections, three county councillors from the party were elected onto the county's new unitary "super-council".
Mental process: Mental processes, mental functions and cognitive processes are terms often used interchangeably (although not always correctly so, the term cognitive tends to have specific implications - see cognitive and cognitivism) to mean such functions or processes as perception, introspection, memory, creativity, imagination, conception, belief, reasoning, volition, and emotionin other words, all the different things that we can do with our minds.
Mesozoic: The Mesozoic Era is one of three geologic eras of the Phanerozoic eon. The division of time into eras dates back to Giovanni Arduino, in the 18th century, although his original name for the era now called the "Mesozoic" was "Secondary" (making everything after, including the modern era, the "Tertiary"; the current term Quaternary was later proposed for the modern era, following the same numbering principle).
Middle East: The Middle East (or, formerly more common, the Near East) is a region that encompasses southwestern Asia and Egypt. In some contexts, the term has recently been expanded in usage to sometimes include Afghanistan and Pakistan, the Caucacus and Central Asia, and North Africa. It's often used as a synonym for Near East, in opposition to Far East. The corresponding adjective is Middle-Eastern and the derived noun is Middle-Easterner.
Monism: Monism is any philosophical view which holds that there is unity in a given field of inquiry, where this is not to be expected. Thus, some philosophers may hold that the universe is really just one thing, despite its many appearances and diversities; or theology may support the view that there is one God, with many manifestations in different religions.
Mo ollar: Moollar is one of the pioneer bands in Turkish rock music for about 40 years and one of the founders of Turkish ethno rock music. The major goal of the band is to prove that folk music has a multi-layered soul and folk music's dynamism is very close to pop music's dynamism.
Medium shot: In film, a medium shot is a camera shot from a medium distance. The dividing line between "long shot" and "medium shot" is fuzzy, as is the line between "medium shot" and "close-up". In some standard texts and professional references, a full-length view of a human subject is called a medium shot; in this terminology, a shot of the person from the knees up or the waist up is a close-up shot. In other texts, these partial views are called medium shots.
Master shot: A master shot is a film recording of an entire dramatized scene, from start to finish, from an angle that keeps all the players in view. It is often a long shot and can sometimes perform a double function as an establishing shot.
M4: M4, M04 or M-4 may refer to:
Marco Polo: Marco Polo (c. 1254 - January 8, 1324) was a merchant from the Venetian Republic who wrote Il Milione, which introduced Europeans to Central Asia and China. He learned about trading whilst his father and uncle, Niccol and Maffeo, travelled through Asia and met Kublai Khan. In 1269, they returned to Venice to meet Marco for the first time.
List of motion picture terminology: The film industry is built upon a large number of technologies and techniques, drawing upon photography, stagecraft, music, and many other disciplines. Following is an index of specific terminology applicable thereto.
Moon: The Moon is Earth's only natural satellite and the fifth largest satellite in the Solar System. The average centre-to-centre distance from the Earth to the Moon is 384,403 kilometres (238,857 mi), about thirty times the diameter of the Earth. The common centre of mass of the system is located at about 1,700 kilometres (1,100 mi)a quarter the Earth's radiusbeneath the surface of the Earth.
Magnoliales: Magnoliales is an order of flowering plants.
Mountain range: A mountain range is a chain of mountains bordered by highlands or separated from other mountains by passes or valleys. Individual mountains within the same mountain range do not necessarily have the same geology, though they often do; they may be a mix of different orogeny, for example volcanoes, uplifted mountains or fold mountains and may, therefore, be of different rock. The Himalaya Range contains the highest mountains on the Earth's surface, the highest of which is Mount Everest.
March: March (pronunciation) is the third month of the year in the Gregorian Calendar, and one of the seven months which are 31 days long. March in the Southern Hemisphere is the seasonal equivalent of September in the Northern Hemisphere. The name of March comes from ancient Rome, when March was the first month of the year and named Martius after Mars, the Roman god of war.
May: May (pronunciation) is the fifth month of the year in the Gregorian Calendar and one of seven Gregorian months with the length of 31 days. It is also a month within the northern season of spring. The month May has been named for the Greek goddess Maia, who was identified with the Roman era goddess of fertility, Bona Dea, whose festival was held in May.
Marijuana disambiguation: Marijuana is a term used for the drug from the Cannabis sativa plant. Related articles include: Cannabis (drug), the drug Marijuana (etymology), history and usage of the term Marijuana (EP), an EP by the band Brujeria
Mental disorder: A mental disorder or mental illness is a psychological or behavioral pattern that occurs in an individual and is thought to cause distress or disability that is not expected as part of normal development or culture. The recognition and understanding of mental health conditions has changed over time and across cultures, and there are still variations in the definition, assessment, and classification of mental disorders, although standard guideline criteria are widely accepted.
Michael Moorcock: Michael John Moorcock (born 18 December 1939, in London) is an English writer primarily of science fiction and fantasy who has also published a number of literary novels. Moorcock has mentioned The Gods of Mars by Edgar Rice Burroughs, The Apple Cart by George Bernard Shaw and The Constable of St. Nicholas by Edward Lester Arnold as the first three books which captured his imagination.
Moby: Richard Melville Hall (born September 11, 1965), better known by his stage name Moby, is an American DJ, singer-songwriter, and musician. He sings and plays keyboard, guitar, bass guitar and drums. Moby became a successful artist on the ambient electronica scene, and achieved eight top 40 singles in the UK during the 1990s.
Mandarin Chinese: Mandarin, is a category of related Chinese dialects spoken across most of northern and south-western China. When taken as a separate language, as is often done in academic literature, the Mandarin language has more native speakers than any other language. The "standard" in Standard Mandarin refers to the standard Beijing dialect of the Mandarin language. Mandarin is also a general term describing any grade of nobility in the Chinese Imperial Court.
M tley Cr e: Mley Cre is an American hard rock band formed in Los Angeles, California in 1981. The band was founded by bass guitarist Nikki Sixx and drummer Tommy Lee, who were later joined by lead guitarist Mick Mars and lead singer Vince Neil. Mley Cre has sold more than 80 million album copies worldwide, including 25 million in the U.S.
Maquis: Maquis or 'macchia' is a type of high ground in Corsica covered in thick vegetation, where privateers used to hide. The name has been adopted by a variety of guerilla movements in francophone countries. Maquis may also refer to:
Mandriva Linux: Mandriva Linux (formerly Mandrakelinux or Mandrake Linux) is a French Linux distribution distributed by Mandriva (formerly Mandrakesoft). It uses the RPM Package Manager. The product lifetime of Mandriva Linux releases is 18 months for base updates and 12 months for desktop updates. Server products receive full updates for at least 24 months after their release.
Mazda: Mazda Motor Corporation is a Japanese automotive manufacturer based in Fuch, Aki District, Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan. During 2007, Mazda produced almost 1.3 million vehicles for global sales. The majority of these (nearly 1 million) were produced in the company's Japanese plants, with the remainder coming from a variety of other plants worldwide.
Matteo Carcassi: Matteo Carcassi (1792 - January 16, 1853) was a famous Italian guitarist and composer. Carcassi began with the piano, but learned guitar when still a child. He quickly gained a reputation as a virtuoso concert guitarist. He moved to Germany in 1810, gaining almost immediate success. In 1815, he was living in Paris, earning his living as a teacher of both the piano and the guitar. On a concert tour in Germany in 1819, he met his friend Antoine Meissonnier for the first time.
Mathematical constant: A mathematical constant is a special number, usually a real number, that arises naturally in mathematics. Unlike physical constants, mathematical constants are defined independently of physical measurement. Some mathematical constants, such as e and , arise in many different contexts. Others, such as Graham's number or Skewes' number, only arise in a single specific context, but are notable because they are the earliest found, largest or smallest exemplar of a class of numbers.
Minute: A minute is a unit of measurement of time or of angle. The minute is a unit of time equal to 1/60th of an hour or 60 seconds. In the UTC time scale, a minute occasionally has 59 or 61 seconds; see leap second. The minute is not an SI unit; however, it is accepted for use with SI units. The symbol for minute or minutes is min. The fact that an hour contains 60 minutes is probably due to influences from the Babylonians, who used a base-60 or sexagesimal counting system.
Maurice Merleau-Ponty: Maurice Merleau-Ponty (March 14, 1908 - May 3, 1961) was a French phenomenological philosopher, strongly influenced by Karl Marx, Edmund Husserl and Martin Heidegger in addition to being closely associated with Jean-Paul Sartre (who later stated he had been "converted" to Marxism by Merleau-Ponty) and Simone de Beauvoir. At the core of Merleau-Ponty's philosophy is a sustained argument for the foundational role that perception plays in understanding the world as well as engaging with the world.
Model organism: A model organism is a non-human species that is extensively studied to understand particular biological phenomena, with the expectation that discoveries made in the organism model will provide insight into the workings of other organisms. In particular, model organisms are widely used to explore potential causes and treatments for human disease when human experimentation would be unfeasible or unethical.
Materialism: In philosophy the theory of materialism holds that the only thing that exists is matter; that all things are composed of material and all phenomena are the result of material interactions. In other words, matter is the only substance. As a theory, materialism is a form of physicalism and belongs to the class of monist ontology. As such, it is different from ontological theories based on dualism or pluralism.
Mandrake plant: Mandrake is the common name for members of the plant genus Mandragora belonging to the nightshades family (Solanaceae). Because mandrake contains deliriant hallucinogenic tropane alkaloids such as hyoscyamine and the roots sometimes contain bifurcations causing them to resemble human figures, their roots have long been used in magic rituals, today also in neopagan religions such as Wicca and Germanic revivalism religions such as Odinism.
Microelectronics: Microelectronics is a subfield of electronics. Microelectronics, as the name suggests, is related to the study and manufacture, or microfabrication, of electronic components which are very small (usually micrometre-scale or smaller, but not always). These devices are made from semiconductors.
Mind: Mind is the aspect of intellect and consciousness experienced as combinations of thought, perception, memory, emotion, will and imagination, including all unconscious cognitive processes. The term is often used to refer, by implication, to the thought processes of reason. Mind manifests itself subjectively as a stream of consciousness. Theories of mind and its function are numerous.
Miyamoto Musashi: Miyamoto Musashi (c. 1584-June 13, 1645), also known as Shinmen Takez, Miyamoto Bennosuke, or by his Buddhist name Niten Draku, was a Japanese swordsman and samurai famed for his duels and distinctive style. Musashi, as he was often simply known, became renowned through stories of his excellent swordsmanship in numerous duels, even from a very young age.
Multivariate statistics: Multivariate statistics is a form of statistics encompassing the simultaneous observation and analysis of more than one statistical variable. The application of multivariate statistics is multivariate analysis. Methods of bivariate statistics, for example ANOVA and t-tests, are special cases of multivariate statistics in which two variables are involved.
Money laundering: Money laundering is the process of changing large amounts of money obtained from crimes, such as drug trafficking, into origination from a legitimate source. It is a crime in many jurisdictions with varying definitions. It is a key operation of the underground economy. In US law it is the practice of engaging in financial transactions to conceal the identity, source, or destination of illegally gained money. In UK law the common law definition is wider.
Miguel de Cervantes: Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra was born in modern Spain; September 29, 1547 - April 23, 1616 he was a Spanish novelist, poet, and playwright. His magnum opus, Don Quixote, often considered the first modern novel, is a classic of Western literature and is regularly regarded among the best novels ever written. His work is considered among the most important in all of literature.
Midwifery: Midwifery is a health care profession in which providers offer care to childbearing women during their pregnancy, labour and birth, and during the postpartum period. They also care for the newborn through to six weeks of age, including assisting the mother with breastfeeding. Midwives may also offer interconceptional care including well-woman care. A practitioner of midwifery is known as a midwife, a term used in reference to both women and men. .
Mercedes: Mercedes is a girl's name of Spanish origin, referring to a title for the Virgin Mary, "Our Lady of Mercy.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi: Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (2 October 1869 - 30 January 1948) was the pre-eminent political and spiritual leader of India during the Indian independence movement. He was the pioneer of satyagraharesistance to tyranny through mass civil disobedience, a philosophy firmly founded upon ahimsa or total nonviolencewhich led India to independence and inspired movements for civil rights and freedom across the world.
Maimonides: Maimonides was a preeminent medieval Jewish philosopher, one of the greatest Torah scholars of the Middle Ages. He is also known by the names Moses Maimonides, Rabbi Moshe ben Maimon or the acronym the Rambam . He was born in Cdoba, Spain, in 1137 or 1138, and died in Egypt on 20th Tevet, December 12, 1204. He worked as a rabbi, physician, and philosopher in Spain, Morocco and Egypt.
Marilyn Manson band: Marilyn Manson is an American rock band founded by Brian Warner and Scott Putesky in the city of Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The band advocates nonconformism and iconoclasm, often utilizing controversial imagery and lyrical content. It is difficult to categorize the band, however, as each album thus far has had a distinct and individual sound, and the band and frontman endeavor to devise and use a unique image and aesthetic for each album's era.
Group mathematics: In mathematics, a group is an algebraic structure consisting of a set together with an operation that combines any two of its elements to form a third element. To qualify as a group, the set and the operation must satisfy a few conditions called group axioms, namely closure, associativity, identity and invertibility.
Magnetic resonance imaging: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (NMRI), is primarily a medical imaging technique most commonly used in radiology to visualize detailed internal structure and limited function of the body. MRI provides much greater contrast between the different soft tissues of the body than computed tomography (CT) does, making it especially useful in neurological (brain), musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, and oncological (cancer) imaging.
Mortimer J. Adler: Mortimer Jerome Adler (December 28, 1902 - June 28, 2001) was an American philosopher, educator, and popular author. As a philosopher he worked within the Aristotelian and Thomistic traditions. He lived for the longest stretches in New York City, Chicago, San Francisco, and San Mateo. He worked for Columbia University, the University of Chicago, Encyclopia Britannica, and Adler's own Institute for Philosophical Research. Adler was married twice and had four children.
Max Horkheimer: Max Horkheimer (February 14, 1895 - July 7, 1973) was a German philosopher-sociologist, famous for his work in critical theory as a member of the 'Frankfurt School' of social research. His most important works include The Eclipse of Reason (1947) and, in collaboration with Theodor Adorno, The Dialectic of Enlightenment (1947). Through the Frankfurt School, Horkheimer planned, supported and made other significant works possible.
Max Weber: Maximilian Carl Emil "Max" Weber (21 April 1864-14 June 1920) was a German lawyer, politician, historian, political economist, and sociologist, who profoundly influenced social theory and the remit of sociology itself. Weber's major works dealt with the rationalization and so called "disenchantment" which he associated with the rise of capitalism and modernity.
Burma: Burma, officially the Union of Myanmar, is the largest country by geographical area in Indochina. The country is bordered by China on the north-east, Laos on the east, Thailand on the south-east, Bangladesh on the west, India on the north-west and the Bay of Bengal to the south-west with the Andaman Sea defining its southern periphery. One-third of Burma's total perimeter, 1,930 kilometres (1,199 mi), forms an uninterrupted coastline.
Poland Is Not Yet Lost: Mazurek Dbrowskiego ("Dbrowski's Mazurka") is the national anthem of Poland. It is also known by its original title, Pie Legion Polskich we Woszech ("Song of the Polish Legions in Italy"), or by its incipit, Jeszcze Polska nie zgina ("Poland Is Not Yet Lost" or "Poland Has Not Yet Perished").
Mahjong: Mahjong is a game for four players that originated in China. Mahjong involves skill, strategy, and calculation, as well as a certain degree of luck (depending on the variation played, luck can be anything from a minor to a dominant factor in winning). In Asia, mahjong is also popularly played as a gambling game. In the game, each player is dealt either thirteen or sixteen tiles in a hand, depending on the variation being played.
Mervyn Peake: Mervyn Laurence Peake (9 July 1911 - 17 November 1968) was an English modernist writer, artist, poet and illustrator. He is best known for what are usually referred to as the Gormenghast books. (The three works were part of what Peake conceived as a lengthy cycle, the completion of which was halted by his death. ) They are sometimes compared to the work of his older contemporary J. R. R.
Martial arts: Martial arts or fighting arts are systems of codified practices and traditions of training for combat. Martial arts all have a very similar objective: defend oneself or others from physical threat. In addition, some martial arts are linked to beliefs such as Hinduism, Buddhism, Daoism, Confucianism or Shinto while others follow a particular code of honor. Martial arts are considered as both an art and a science.
Murat Ses: Murat Ses (Ses means sound in Turkish) is a Turkish keyboard player and composer with strong Eurasian electronic elements. He is creator of the Anadolu Pop style, a synthesis of Anatolian Music and Western elements that has been influencing Turkish music scene for decades.
Finitary relation: In mathematics, a relation is a property that assigns truth values to combinations of k individuals. Typically, the property describes a possible connection between the components of a k-tuple. For a given set of k-tuples, a truth value is assigned to each k-tuple according to whether the property does or does not hold. An example of a ternary relation (i.e.
Intuitionism: In the philosophy of mathematics, intuitionism, or neointuitionism, is an approach to mathematics as the constructive mental activity of humans. That is, mathematics does not consist of analytic activities wherein deep properties of existence are revealed and applied. Instead, logic and mathematics are the application of internally consistent methods to realize more complex mental constructs.
Mokele-mbembe: Mok-mbb: meaning "one who stops the flow of rivers" in the Lingala language, is the name given to a large water dwelling cryptid found in legends and folklore of the Congo River basin. It is sometimes described as a living creature and sometimes as a spirit. It could be considered loosely analogous to the Loch Ness Monster in Western culture. Several expeditions have been mounted in the hope of finding evidence of the Mok-mbb, though without success.
Morphism: In mathematics, a morphism is an abstraction derived from structure-preserving mappings between two mathematical structures. The study of morphisms and of the structures over which they are defined, is central to category theory. Much of the terminology of morphisms, as well as the intuition underlying them, comes from concrete categories, where the objects are simply sets with some additional structure, and morphisms are functions preserving this structure.
Military technology and equipment: Warfare File:Ramses II at Kadesh. jpgFile:Gustavus Adolphus at the Battle at Breitenfeld. jpgFile:M1A1 abrams front.
Marathon disambiguation: A marathon is a distance race of 26.21875 miles (42.195 km). By extension, in general speech it's a lengthy, arduous or time-consuming undertaking. Marathon may also refer to:
Monotheism: In theology, monotheism is the belief that only one God exists. The concept of "monotheism" tends to be dominated by the concept of God in the Abrahamic religions, such as Judaism, Christianity, Islam and Druze, the Platonic concept of God as put forward by Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite, as well as the Advaita, Dvaita and Vishishtadvaita philosophies of Hinduism, although the latter philosophies admit the existence of a plethora of divine beings.
Mishnah: The Mishnah or Mishna is the first major written redaction of the Jewish oral traditions called the "Oral Torah" and the first major work of Rabbinic Judaism. It was redacted c. 200 CE by Judah haNasi when, according to the Talmud, the persecution of the Jews and the passage of time raised the possibility that the details of the oral traditions dating from Pharisaic times (536 BCE - 70 CE) would be forgotten.
Mechanical engineering: Mechanical Engineering is an engineering discipline that was developed from the application of principles from physics and materials science. According to the American Heritage Dictionary, it is the branch of engineering that encompasses the generation and application of heat and mechanical power and the design, production, and use of machines and tools. It is one of the oldest and broadest engineering disciplines.
Muay Thai: Muay Thai is a hard martial art from Thailand. It is similar to other Indochinese styles of kickboxing, namely pradal serey from Cambodia, tomoi from Malaysia, lethwei from Myanmar and Muay Lao from Laos. Descended from muay boran, Muay Thai is Thailand's national sport. The word muay derives from the Sanskrit mavya and Thai comes from the word Tai.
Minister: Minister can mean several things: Minister (Christianity), a Christian who ministers in some way Minister (diplomacy), the rank of diplomat directly below ambassador Minister (government), a politician who heads a ministry (government department) Shadow minister, a member of a Shadow Cabinet of the opposition
Monkey Island series: Monkey Island is the collective name given to a series of five graphical adventure games produced and published by LucasArts, originally known as LucasFilm Games through the development of the first game in the series. The fifth installment of the franchise was developed by Telltale Games in collaboration with LucasArts.
Cardiff Arms Park: Cardiff Arms Park, also known as The Arms Park, is a rugby union stadium situated in the centre of Cardiff, Wales. The history of the rugby ground starts with the first stands appearing for spectators in the ground in 1881-1882, although the Arms Park had cricket played on the site since 1848.
Mikhail Kalashnikov: Major General Mikhail Timofeyevich Kalashnikov (born November 10, 1919 in Russia's southern Altai region) is a Russian small arms designer, most famous for designing the AK-47 assault rifle, the AKM and the AK-74.
MUD: In online gaming, a MUD (Multi-User Dungeon, Multi-User Dimension or Multi-User Domain), pronounced /md/, is a multi-user real-time virtual world described entirely in text. It combines elements of role-playing games, hack and slash, interactive fiction, and online chat. Players can read descriptions of rooms, objects, other players, non-player characters, and actions performed in the virtual world.
Microevolution: Microevolution is the occurrence of small-scale changes in allele frequencies in a population, over a few generations, also known as "change below the species level". These changes are due to four different processes: mutation, selection, gene flow and genetic drift. Population genetics is the branch of biology that provides the mathematical structure for the study of the process of microevolution. Ecological genetics concerns itself with observing microevolution in the wild.
MUSH: A MUSH (sometimes said to be an abbreviation for Multi-User Shared Hack, Habitat, Holodeck, or Hallucination, though these are backronyms) is a text-based online social medium to which multiple users are connected at the same time. MUSH are often used for online social intercourse and role-playing games, although the first forms of MUSH do not appear to be coded specifically to implement gaming activity.
Muslim: A Muslim, pronounced /slm/, is an adherent of the religion of Islam. Literally, the word means "one who submits". Muslim is the participle of the same verb of which Islam is the infinitive. The feminine form is sometimes used as Muslimah, especially in recent years. All Muslims observe Sunnah, but differences in the definition of what is and what is not Sunnah has led to the emergence of sectarian movements.
Mao Zedong: Mao Zedong pronunciation (December 26, 1893 - September 9, 1976) was a Chinese revolutionary, political theorist and communist leader. He led the People's Republic of China (PRC) from its establishment in 1949 until his death in 1976. His theoretical contribution to Marxism-Leninism, military strategies, and his brand of Communist policies are now collectively known as Maoism. Mao remains a controversial figure to this day, with a contentious and ever-evolving legacy.
MySQL: MySQL is a relational database management system (RDBMS) that runs as a server providing multi-user access to a number of databases. MySQL is officially pronounced /maskjul/ ("My S-Q-L"), but is often /masiwl/ ("Micey Quell") or /maiwl/ ("My Sequel"). It is named for original developer Michael Widenius's daughter My.
Modernism: Modernism, in its broadest definition, is modern thought, character, or practice. More specifically, the term describes both a set of cultural tendencies and an array of associated cultural movements, originally arising from wide-scale and far-reaching changes to Western society in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
Marshall McLuhan: Herbert Marshall McLuhan, CC (July 21, 1911 - December 31, 1980) was a Canadian educator, philosopher, and scholar a professor of English literature, a literary critic, a rhetorician, and a communication theorist. McLuhan's work is viewed as one of the cornerstones of the study of media theory. McLuhan is known for the expressions "the medium is the message" and "global village".
Multiple inheritance: Multiple inheritance refers to a feature of some object-oriented programming languages in which a class can inherit behaviors and features from more than one superclass. This contrasts with single inheritance, where a class may inherit from at most one superclass. Languages that support multiple inheritance include: Eiffel, C++, Dylan, Python, Perl, Perl 6, Curl, Common Lisp, OCaml, Tcl, and Object REXX (via the use of mixin classes).
Microprocessor: A microprocessor incorporates most or all of the functions of a computer's central processing unit (CPU) on a single integrated circuit (IC, or microchip). The first microprocessors emerged in the early 1970s and were used for electronic calculators, using binary-coded decimal (BCD) arithmetic on 4-bit words. Other embedded uses of 4- and 8-bit microprocessors, such as terminals, printers, various kinds of automation etc, followed rather quickly.
Media studies: Media studies is an academic discipline that deals with the content, history and effects of various media; in particular, the 'mass media'. The subject varies greatly in theoretical and methodological focus, but may be broadly divided into three interrelated areas: the critique of artistic styles and aesthetic forms, the study of the production process, and sociological analysis.
Molecule: A molecule is defined as an electrically neutral group of at least two atoms in a definite arrangement held together by very strong chemical bonds. Molecules are distinguished from polyatomic ions in this strict sense. In organic chemistry and biochemistry, the term molecule is used less strictly and also is applied to charged organic molecules and biomolecules. In the kinetic theory of gases, the term molecule is often used for any gaseous particle regardless of its composition.
Musical mode: Mode (from Latin modus, "measure, standard, manner, way") is a term from Western music theory having three definitions (Powers 2001, introduction). the rhythmic relationship between long and short values in the late medieval period; in early medieval theory, interval; most commonly, a concept involving scale and melody type.
Mandelbrot set: In mathematics the Mandelbrot set, named after Benot Mandelbrot, is a set of points in the complex plane, the boundary of which forms a fractal. Mathematically the Mandelbrot set can be defined as the set of complex values of c for which the orbit of 0 under iteration of the complex quadratic polynomial zn+1 = zn + c remains bounded.
Mechanics: Mechanics is the branch of physics concerned with the behaviour of physical bodies when subjected to forces or displacements, and the subsequent effect of the bodies on their environment. The discipline has its roots in several ancient civilizations. During the early modern period, scientists such as Galileo, Kepler, and especially Newton, laid the foundation for what is now known as classical mechanics. The system of study of mechanics is shown in the table below:
Music critic: A music critic is someone who reviews music (including printed music, performances of music and recorded music) and publishes on them in newspapers, magazines, books or journals, or since the 1990s, on the Internet. Some large newspapers or magazines may employ multiple music critics.
Michael Mann director: Michael Kenneth Mann (born February 5, 1943) is an American film director, screenwriter, and producer. For his work, he has received nominations from international organizations and juries, including those at the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, Cannes and the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. He has produced the Academy Awards ceremony twice, first in 1999 with the 72nd annual Academy Awards and second in 2004 with the 77th annual ceremony.
Main group element: In chemistry and atomic physics, main group elements are elements in groups, (periodic columns) whose lightest members are represented by hydrogen, beryllium, boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, and helium as arranged in the periodic table of the elements. Main group elements include elements in groups 1A- 2A and 13 (3A) - 18 (8A) (also known as S and P block elements).
Microscopy: Microscopy is the technical field of using microscopes to view samples or objects. There are three well-known branches of microscopy, optical, electron and scanning probe microscopy. Optical and electron microscopy involve the diffraction, reflection, or refraction of electromagnetic radiation/electron beam interacting with the subject of study, and the subsequent collection of this scattered radiation in order to build up an image.
Midrash: Midrash is a homiletic method of biblical exegesis. The term also refers to the whole compilation of homiletic teachings on the Bible. Midrash is a way of interpreting biblical stories that goes beyond simple distillation of religious, legal or moral teachings. It fills in many gaps left in the biblical narrative regarding events and personalities that are only hinted at.
Membrane selective barrier: A membrane is a layer of material which serves as a selective barrier between two phases and remains impermeable to specific particles, molecules, or substances when exposed to the action of a driving force. Some components are allowed passage by the membrane into a permeate stream, whereas others are retained by it and accumulate in the retentate stream. Membranes can be of various thickness, with homogeneous or heterogeneous structure.
Microscope: A microscope is an instrument to see objects too small for the naked eye. The science of investigating small objects using such an instrument is called microscopy. Microscopic means invisible to the eye unless aided by a microscope.
Monitor: Monitor may refer to:
Men in Black: Men in Black (MIB), in popular culture and in UFO conspiracy theories, are men dressed in black suits who claim to be government agents who harass or threaten UFO witnesses to keep them quiet about what they have seen. It is sometimes implied that they may be aliens themselves. The term is also frequently used to describe mysterious men working for unknown organizations, as well as to various branches of government allegedly designed to protect secrets or perform other strange activities.
Missouri: Missouri is a state in the Midwest region of the United States bordered by Iowa, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Kansas and Nebraska. Missouri is the 18th most populous state with a 2009 estimated population of 5,987,580. It comprises 114 counties and one independent city. Missouri's capital is Jefferson City. The three largest urban areas are St. Louis, Kansas City, and Springfield.
Monomer: A monomer (from Greek mono "one" and meros "part") is either an atom or a small molecule that has the potential of chemically binding to other monomers of the same species to form a polymer. The most common biochemical monomer is glucose, which is linked by glycosidic bonds into polymers such as cellulose and starch, and is over 76% of the weight of all plant matter.
Mississippi River: The Mississippi River is the largest river system in the United States and the largest of North America. About 2,320 miles (3,730 km) long, the river originates at Lake Itasca, Minnesota and flows slowly southwards in sweeping meanders, terminating 95 river miles below New Orleans, Louisiana where it begins to flow to the Gulf of Mexico. Along with its major tributary, the Missouri River, the river drains all or parts of 31 U.S.
Moses: Moses was, according to the Hebrew Bible, a religious leader, lawgiver, and prophet, to whom the authorship of the Torah is traditionally attributed. Also called Moshe Rabbenu in Hebrew, he is the most important prophet in Judaism, and is also considered an important prophet by Christianity, Islam, the Bah' Faith, Rastafari, and many other faiths. Moses has also been an important symbol in American history, from the first settlers up until the present.
Minimax: Minimax (sometimes minmax) is a decision rule used in decision theory, game theory, statistics and philosophy for minimizing the possible loss while maximizing the potential gain. Alternatively, it can be thought of as maximizing the minimum gain (maximin). Originally formulated for two-player zero-sum game theory, covering both the cases where players take alternate moves and those where they make simultaneous moves.
Mitochondrion: In cell biology, a mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. These organelles range from 0.5 to 10 micrometers in diameter. Mitochondria are sometimes described as "cellular power plants" because they generate most of the cell's supply of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), used as a source of chemical energy.
Missile: A missile is a self-propelled projectile used as a weapon. Missiles are typically propelled by rockets or jet engines. Missiles generally have one or more explosive warheads, although other weapon types may also be used.
Missouria: The Missouria or Missouri are a Native American tribe that originated in the Great Lakes region of United States before European contact. The tribe belongs to the Chiwere division of the Siouan linguistic family, with the Iowa and Otoe. Historically, the tribe lived near the mouth of the Grand River, the mouth of the Missouri River, and in Saline County, Missouri. Today they live primarily in Oklahoma.
Minnesota: Minnesota is a state in the Midwestern region of the United States. The twelfth largest state by area in the U.S. , it is the twenty-first most populous, with 5.2 million residents. Minnesota was carved out of the eastern half of the Minnesota Territory and admitted to the Union as the thirty-second state on May 11, 1858. Known as the "Land of 10,000 Lakes", the state's name comes from a Dakota word for "sky-tinted water".
Mutagenesis: Mutagenesis is a process by which the genetic information of an organism is changed in a stable manner, either in nature or experimentally by the use of chemicals or radiation. There are the following types of mutagenesis: Directed mutagenesis Insertional mutagenesis PCR mutagenesis Signature tagged mutagenesis Site-directed mutagenesis Transposon mutagenesis
Mendelian inheritance: Mendelian inheritance (or Mendelian genetics or Mendelism) is a set of primary tenets relating to the transmission of hereditary characteristics from parent organisms to their offspring; it underlies much of genetics. They were initially derived from the work of Gregor Mendel published in 1865 and 1866 which was "re-discovered" in 1900, and were initially very controversial.
Missouri River: The Missouri River is the longest river in the United States of America and is a tributary of the Mississippi River. The Missouri likely originates at Brower's Spring at the upper reaches of the Jefferson River, before joining the confluence of the Madison, Jefferson, and Gallatin rivers in Montana. From this point, it flows through its valley south and east into the Mississippi north of St. Louis, Missouri.
Machinima: Machinima is the use of real-time three-dimensional (3-D) graphics rendering engines to generate computer animation. The term also refers to works that incorporate this animation technique.
Mackenzie Bowell: Sir Mackenzie Bowell, PC, KCMG (December 27, 1823 - December 10, 1917) was a Canada politician who served as the fifth Prime Minister of Canada from December 21, 1894 to April 27, 1896.
Memory leak: A memory leak or leakage in computer science is a particular type of memory consumption by a computer program where the program is unable to release memory it has acquired. A memory leak has symptoms similar to a number of other problems (see below) and generally can only be diagnosed by a programmer with access to the program source code; however, many people refer to any unwanted increase in memory usage as a memory leak, though this is not strictly accurate.
Molecular orbital: In chemistry, a molecular orbital (or MO) is a mathematical function that describes the wave-like behavior of an electron in a molecule. This function can be used to calculate chemical and physical properties such as the probability of finding an electron in any specific region. The term "orbital" was first used in English by Robert S. Mulliken as the English translation of Schringer's 'Eigenfunktion'. It has since been equated with the "region" generated with the function.
Main sequence: The main sequence is a continuous and distinctive band of stars that appear on plots of stellar color versus brightness. These color-magnitude plots are known as Hertzsprung-Russell diagrams after their co-developers, Ejnar Hertzsprung and Henry Norris Russell. Stars on this band are known as main-sequence stars or "dwarf" stars. After a star has formed, it creates energy at the hot, dense core region through the nuclear fusion of hydrogen atoms into helium.
Systems Concepts: Systems Concepts (now the SC Group) is a company co-founded by Stewart Nelson and Mike Levitt focused on making hardware products related to the DEC PDP-10 series of computers. One of its major products was the SA-10, an interface which allowed PDP-10s to be connected to disk and tape drives designed for use with the channel interfaces of IBM mainframes. Later, Systems Concepts attempted to produce a compatible replacement for the DEC PDP-10 computers.
Margaret Mead: Margaret Mead (December 16, 1901 - November 15, 1978) was an American cultural anthropologist, who was frequently a featured writer and speaker in the mass media throughout the 1960s and 1970s. She was both a popularizer of the insights of anthropology into modern American and Western culture, and also a respected, if controversial, academic anthropologist.
Manhattan Project: The Manhattan Project was the codename for a project conducted during World War II to develop the first atomic bomb. The project was led by the United States, and included participation from the United Kingdom and Canada. Formally designated as the Manhattan Engineering District (MED), it refers specifically to the period of the project from 1942-1946 under the control of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, under the administration of General Leslie R. Groves.
Michael Palin: Michael Edward Palin, CBE (born 5 May 1943) is an English comedian, actor, writer and television presenter best known for being one of the members of the comedy group Monty Python and for his travel documentaries. Palin wrote most of his material with Terry Jones. Before Monty Python, they had worked on other shows such as The Ken Dodd Show, The Frost Report and Do Not Adjust Your Set.
Materials science: Materials science or materials engineering is an interdisciplinary field involving the properties of matter and its applications to various areas of science and engineering. This science investigates the relationship between the structure of materials at atomic or molecular scales and their macroscopic properties. It includes elements of applied physics and chemistry.
A6M Zero: The Mitsubishi A6M Zero was a long range fighter aircraft operated by the Imperial Japanese Navy Air Service (IJNAS) from 1940 to 1945. The A6M was usually referred to by the Allies as the "Zero"a name that was frequently misapplied to other Japanese fighters, such as the Nakajima Ki-43as well as other codenames and nicknames, including "Zeke", "Hamp" and "Hap".
Messiah: Messiah literally means "anointed (one)". In Jewish messianic tradition and eschatology, messiah refers to a leader anointed by God, and in some cases, a future King of Israel, physically descended from the Davidic line, who will rule the people of a united tribes of Israel and herald the Messianic Age of global peace. He is not considered to be divine, and is not considered to be the Christian Jesus.
Monasticism: Monasticism (from Greek , monachos, derived from Greek monos, alone) is the religious practice in which someone renounces worldly pursuits to fully devote their life to spiritual work. The origin of the word is from Ancient Greek, and the idea originally related to Christian monks. Monasticism is a religious way of life. In the Christian tradition, those pursuing a monastic life are usually called monks or brethren (brothers) if male, and nuns or sisters if female.
March 15: In the Roman calendar, March 15 was known as the Ides of March.
Molecular nanotechnology: Molecular nanotechnology (MNT) is the concept of engineering functional mechanical systems at the molecular scale. An equivalent definition would be "machines at the molecular scale designed and built atom-by-atom". This is distinct from nanoscale materials.
Mathematical logic: Mathematical logic is a subfield of mathematics with close connections to computer science and philosophical logic. The field includes both the mathematical study of logic and the applications of formal logic to other areas of mathematics. The unifying themes in mathematical logic include the study of the expressive power of formal systems and the deductive power of formal proof systems.
Microelectromechanical systems: Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) (also written as micro-electro-mechanical, MicroElectroMechanical or "microelectronic and microelectromechanical systems") is the technology of the very small, and merges at the nano-scale into nanoelectromechanical systems (NEMS) and nanotechnology. MEMS are also referred to as micromachines (in Japan), or Micro Systems Technology - MST (in Europe).
Marvin Minsky: Marvin Lee Minsky (born August 9, 1927) is an American cognitive scientist in the field of artificial intelligence (AI), co-founder of Massachusetts Institute of Technology's AI laboratory, and author of several texts on AI and philosophy.
Mein Kampf: Mein Kampf, in English: My Struggle, is a book by Adolf Hitler. It combines elements of autobiography with an exposition of Hitler's political ideology. Volume 1 of Mein Kampf was published in 1925 and Volume 2 in 1926. Hitler began the dictation of the book while imprisoned for what he considered to be "political crimes" after his failed revolution in Munich in November 1923. Though Hitler received many visitors earlier on, he soon devoted himself entirely to the book.
Milton Friedman: Milton Friedman (July 31, 1912 - November 16, 2006) was an American economist, statistician, and a recipient of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics. He is best known among scholars for his theoretical and empirical research, especially consumption analysis, monetary history and theory, and for his demonstration of the complexity of stabilization policy. He was an economic advisor to U.S. President Ronald Reagan.
Mass media: Mass media denotes a section of the media specifically designed to reach a large audience. The term was coined in the 1920s with the advent of nationwide radio networks, mass-circulation newspapers and magazines. However, some forms of mass media such as books and manuscripts had already been in use for centuries.
Mahabharata: The Mahabharata (Sanskrit Mahbhrata ) is one of the two major Sanskrit epics of ancient India, the other being the Rmyaa. The epic is part of the Hindu itihsa (or "history"). A major text of Hinduism and a cornerstone of Hindu mythology, it is of immense importance to the culture of the Indian subcontinent.
MVS: Multiple Virtual Storage, more commonly called MVS, was the most commonly used operating system on the System/370 and System/390 IBM mainframe computers. It was developed by IBM, but is unrelated to IBM's other mainframe operating system, VM.
Monoid: In abstract algebra, a branch of mathematics, a monoid is an algebraic structure with a single associative binary operation and an identity element. Monoids are studied in semigroup theory as they are naturally semigroups with identity. Monoids occur in several branches of mathematics; for instance, they can be regarded as categories with a single object. Thus, they capture the idea of function composition within a set.
Mean value theorem: File:Mvt2. svg For any function that is continuous on [a, b] and differentiable on (a, b) there exists some c in the interval (a, b) such that the secant joining the endpoints of the interval [a, b] is parallel to the tangent at c. In calculus, the mean value theorem states, roughly, that given an arc of a smooth continuous curve, there is at least one point on that arc at which the derivative (slope) of the curve is equal (parallel) to the "average" derivative of the arc.
Marc Bloch: Marc Lpold Benjamin Bloch (July 6, 1886 in Lyon - June 16, 1944 in Saint-Didier-de-Formans) was a medieval historian, University Professor and French Army officer. Bloch was a founder of the Annales School, best known for his pioneering studies French Rural History and Feudal Society and his posthumously-published unfinished meditation on the writing of history, The Historian's Craft.
Maniac Mansion: Maniac Mansion is a graphical adventure game originally released in 1987 by Lucasfilm Games (now known as LucasArts). Maniac Mansion has become known among gamers and programmers for its highly-acclaimed gameplay and its introduction of new ideas into gaming, including multiple possible endings, multiple user-selectable characters with significantly different abilities, and critical clues contained in numerous cut scenes.
Michael Ventris: Michael George Francis Ventris (July 12, 1922 - September 6, 1956) was an English architect and classical scholar who, along with John Chadwick, was responsible for the decipherment of Linear B. Ventris was educated in Switzerland and at Stowe School. (Stowe is an 18th century country house; by contrast, his Polish mother, Dorothea Ventris, lived in Berthold Lubetkin's Highpoint modernist apartments in Highgate). He could speak six European languages and read Latin and classical Greek.
Marx Brothers: The Marx Brothers were an American family comedy act, originally from New York City, that enjoyed success in Vaudeville, Broadway, and motion pictures from the early 1900s to around 1950. Five of the Marx Brothers thirteen feature films were selected by the American Film Institute as among the top 100 comedy films, with two of them in the top twelve. The core of the act was the three elder brothers, Chico, Harpo, and Groucho; each developed a highly distinctive stage persona.
MP3: MPEG-1 Audio Layer 3, more commonly referred to as MP3, is a patented digital audio encoding format using a form of lossy data compression. It is a common audio format for consumer audio storage, as well as a de facto standard of digital audio compression for the transfer and playback of music on digital audio players. MP3 is an audio-specific format that was designed by the Moving Picture Experts Group as part of its MPEG-1 standard.
Module: Module or modular may refer to:
Mary Rose: The Mary Rose was a carrack-type warship of the English Tudor navy of King Henry VIII. After serving for 33 years in several wars against France, Scotland and Brittany, she saw her last action on 19 July 1545. While leading the attack on the galleys of a French invasion fleet, she sank in the Solent, the straits north of the Isle of Wight.
Mario Kart: Mario Kart is a series of go-kart-style racing video games developed by Nintendo as a series of spin-offs from its trademark Mario series of platformer adventure-style video games. The series debuted in 1992 with critical and commercial success. To date, there have been four Mario Kart games for home consoles, two portable games, and two arcade games.
Mythology: The term mythology can refer to either the study of myths or a body of myths. For example, comparative mythology is the study of connections between myths from different cultures, whereas Greek mythology is the body of myths from ancient Greece. The term "myth" is often used colloquially to refer to a false story; however, the academic use of the term generally does not pass judgment on its truth or falsity.
Mind map: A mind map is a diagram used to represent words, ideas, tasks, or other items linked to and arranged around a central key word or idea. Mind maps are used to generate, visualize, structure, and classify ideas, and as an aid in study, organization, problem solving, decision making, and writing.
Marine: Marine or Marines may refer to: Marine (ocean), a general term relating to the sea, ocean or the science Oceanography Marine (military), a member of the military in an infantry or amphibious force under the authority of a navy, or in several cases, of an independent amphibious force (e.g.
Machine gun: A machine gun is a fully automatic mounted or portable firearm, usually designed to fire rifle bullets in quick succession from an ammunition belt or large-capacity magazine, typically at a rate of several hundred rounds per minute. The first design/invention of the machine gun was by Leonardo Da Vinci, presenting a design of an eight barreled machine gun that was operated manually by a bandcrank, and was mounted onto the ground, and barely portable.
Monopoly game: Monopoly is a board game published by Parker Brothers, a subsidiary of Hasbro. The game is named after the economic concept of monopoly, the domination of a market by a single entity. Monopoly is the most commercially-successful board game in United States history, with 485 million players worldwide.. According to the BBC, Monopoly is a redesign of an earlier game "The Landlord's Game" first published by the Quaker and political activist Elizabeth Magie.
Monty Python and the Holy Grail: Monty Python and the Holy Grail is a 1975 comedy film written and performed by the comedy group Monty Python, and directed by Gilliam and Jones. It was conceived during a gap between the third and fourth seasons of their popular BBC television series Monty Python's Flying Circus.
Mercury planet: Mercury is the innermost and smallest planet in the Solar System, orbiting the Sun once every 87.969 days. The orbit of Mercury has the highest eccentricity of all the Solar System planets, and it has the smallest axial tilt. It completes three rotations about the axis for every two orbits. The perihelion of Mercury's orbit precesses around the Sun at an excess of 43 arcseconds per century; a phenomenon that was explained in the 20th century by Albert Einstein's General Theory of Relativity.
Memory consolidation: Memory consolidation is a category of processes that stabilize a memory trace after the initial acquisition. Consolidation is distinguished into two specific processes, synaptic consolidation, which occurs within the first few hours after learning, and system consolidation, where hippocampus-dependent memories become independent of the hippocampus over a period of weeks to years.
Max Steiner: Max Steiner (May 10, 1888 - December 28, 1971) was an Vienna-born American composer of music for theatre productions and films. He probably is known best for the score he composed for Gone with the Wind and for the score and theme song for the film A Summer Place. Steiner was born as Maximilian Raoul Steiner in Vienna, Austria-Hungary.
Mutation: Mutations are changes in the DNA sequence of a cell's genome and are caused by radiation, viruses, transposons and mutagenic chemicals, as well as errors that occur during meiosis or DNA replication. They can also be induced by the organism itself, by cellular processes such as hypermutation. Mutation can result in several different types of change in DNA sequences; these can either have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely.
Mercantilism: Mercantilism is an economic theory, considered to be a form of economic nationalism, that holds that the prosperity of a nation is dependent upon its supply of capital, and that the global volume of international trade is "unchangeable". Economic assets (or capital) are represented by bullion (gold, silver, and trade value) held by the state, which is best increased through a positive balance of trade with other nations (exports minus imports).
List of mathematics competitions: Mathematics competitions or mathematical olympiads are competitive events where participants write a mathematics test. These tests may require multiple choice or numeric answers, or a detailed written solution or proof. In the United States, usually only competitions where the participants write a full proof are called Mathematical Olympiads.
Microgyrus: A microgyrus is an area of the cerebral cortex that includes only four cortical layers instead of six. Microgyria are believed by some to be part of the genetic lack of prenatal development which be a cause of, or one of the causes of, dyslexia. Albert Galaburda of Harvard Medical School noticed that language centers in dyslexic brains showed microscopic flaws known as ectopias and microgyria . Both affect the normal six-layer structure of the cortex.
Meat Puppets: The Meat Puppets are an American rock band formed in January 1980, in Paradise Valley, a suburb of Phoenix, Arizona. The group's original lineup was Curt Kirkwood (guitar/vocals), his brother Cris Kirkwood (bass guitar), and Derrick Bostrom (drums). The Kirkwood brothers met Bostrom while attending Brophy Prep High School in Phoenix.
Michael Polanyi: Michael Polanyi, FRS (born Polyi Mihy) (March 11, 1891, Budapest - February 22, 1976, Northampton, England) was a Hungarian-British polymath whose thought and work extended across physical chemistry, economics, and philosophy. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society and a Fellow of Merton College, Oxford.
Milk: Milk is an opaque white liquid produced by the mammary glands of mammals. It provides the primary source of nutrition for young mammals before they are able to digest other types of food. The early lactation milk is known as colostrum, and carries the mother's antibodies to the baby. It can reduce the risk of many diseases in the baby. The exact components of raw milk varies by species, but it contains significant amounts of saturated fat, protein and calcium as well as vitamin C.
Miss Congeniality film: Miss Congeniality is a 2000 comedy directed by Donald Petrie, starring Sandra Bullock, Michael Caine and Benjamin Bratt. A sequel, ' was released in 2005.
Methanol: Methanol, also known as methyl alcohol, wood alcohol, wood naphtha or wood spirits, is a chemical with formula CH3OH (often abbreviated MeOH). It is the simplest alcohol, and is a light, volatile, colorless, flammable, liquid with a distinctive odor that is very similar to but slightly sweeter than ethanol (drinking alcohol). At room temperature it is a polar liquid and is used as an antifreeze, solvent, fuel, and as a denaturant for ethanol.
Magnetism: The term magnetism is used to describe how materials respond on the microscopic level to an applied magnetic field; to categorize the magnetic phase of a material. For example, the most well known form of magnetism is ferromagnetism such that some ferromagnetic materials produce their own persistent magnetic field. However, all materials are influenced to greater or lesser degree by the presence of a magnetic field.
Metallurgy: Metallurgy is a domain of materials science that studies the physical and chemical behavior of metallic elements, their intermetallic compounds, and their mixtures, which are called alloys. It is also the technology of metals: the way in which science is applied to their practical use. Metallurgy is commonly used in the craft of metalworking.
Filter mathematics: In mathematics, a filter is a special subset of a partially ordered set. A frequently used special case is the situation that the ordered set under consideration is just the power set of some set, ordered by set inclusion. Filters appear in order and lattice theory, but can also be found in topology where they originate. The dual notion of a filter is an ideal.
MUMPS: MUMPS (Massachusetts General Hospital Utility Multi-Programming System), or alternatively M, is a programming language created in the late 1960s, originally for use in the healthcare industry. It was designed for the production of multi-user database-driven applications. It predates C and most other popular languages in current usage, and has very different syntax and terminology.
Mercury programming language: Mercury is a functional logic programming language geared towards real-world applications. It is developed at the University Of Melbourne Computer Science department under the supervision of Zolt Somogyi. The first version was developed by Fergus Henderson, Thomas Conway and Zolt Somogyi and was released on April 8, 1995. Mercury is a purely declarative logic language. It is related to both Prolog and Haskell.
Marriage: Marriage is a social union or legal contract between individuals that creates kinship. It is an institution in which interpersonal relationships, usually intimate and sexual, are acknowledged in a variety of ways, depending on the culture or subculture in which it is found. Such a union may also be called matrimony, while the ceremony that marks its beginning is usually called a wedding.
Midgard: Midgard (an Anglicised form of Old Norse Miar), is one of the Nine Worlds and is an old Germanic name for our world and is the home of Humans, with the literal meaning "middle enclosure".
Michael Faraday: Michael Faraday, FRS (22 September 1791 - 25 August 1867) was an English chemist and physicist (or natural philosopher, in the terminology of the time) who contributed to the fields of electromagnetism and electrochemistry. Faraday studied the magnetic field around a conductor carrying a DC electric current, and established the basis for the electromagnetic field concept in physics. He discovered electromagnetic induction, diamagnetism, and laws of electrolysis.
Malcolm Fraser: John Malcolm Fraser, AC, CH (born 21 May 1930) is an Australian Liberal Party politician who was the 22nd Prime Minister of Australia. He came to power in the 1975 election following the dismissal of the Whitlam Labor government, in which he played a key role. After three election victories, he was defeated by Bob Hawke in the 1983 election, and ended his career alienated from his own party.
Macquarie University: Macquarie University is an Australian public teaching and research university located in Sydney, with its main campus situated in Macquarie Park. Founded in 1964 by the New South Wales Government, it was the third university to be established in the metropolitan area of Sydney. Macquaries 126 hectare, park-like campus belies its setting within the high-technology corridor of Sydneys north-west.
Metrization theorem: In topology and related areas of mathematics, a metrizable space is a topological space that is homeomorphic to a metric space. That is, a topological space is said to be metrizable if there is a metric such that the topology induced by d is . Metrization theorems are theorems that give sufficient conditions for a topological space to be metrizable.
M spellsheimr: In Norse mythology, Muspellheim ("Muspel land"), also called Mspell, is a realm of fire. This realm is one of the Nine Worlds and it is home to the fire demons or the Sons of Muspell, and Surtr, their ruler. It is fire; and the land to the North, Niflheim, is ice. The two mixed and created water from the melting ice in Ginnungagap.
Maxwell's equations: Maxwell's equations are a set of four partial differential equations that relate the electric and magnetic fields to their sources, charge density and current density. These equations can be combined to show that light is an electromagnetic wave. Individually, the equations are known as Gauss's law, Gauss's law for magnetism, Faraday's law of induction, and Ampe's law with Maxwell's correction. The set of equations is named after James Clerk Maxwell.
Martin Agricola: Martin Agricola (6 January 1486 - 10 June 1556) was a German composer of Renaissance music and a music theorist. He was born in Schwiebus in Lower Silesia. His German name was Sohr or Sore. From 1524 until his death he lived at Magdeburg, where he occupied the post of teacher or cantor in the Protestant school.
Mariotto Albertinelli: Mariotto di Bigio di Bindo Albertinelli (October 13, 1474 - November 5, 1515) was a High Renaissance Italian painter of the Florentine school, closely involved with Fra Bartolomeo and influenced by Raphael.
Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa: Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa (c. 63 BC-12 BC) was a Roman statesman and general. He was a close friend, son-in-law, lieutenant and defense minister to Octavian, the future emperor Caesar Augustus. He was responsible for most of Octavians military victories, most notably winning the naval Battle of Actium against the forces of Mark Antony and Cleopatra VII of Egypt.
Max August Zorn: Max August Zorn was a German-born American mathematician. He was an algebraist, group theorist, and numerical analyst. He is best known for Zorn's lemma, a powerful tool in set theory that is applicable to a wide range of mathematical constructs such as vector spaces, ordered sets, etc. Zorn's lemma was first discovered by K. Kuratowski in 1922, and then independently by Zorn in 1935. Zorn attended the University of Hamburg. He received his Ph.D.
Beijing cuisine: Beijing cuisine is a cooking style in Beijing, China. It is also formally known as Mandarin cuisine.
Moroccan cuisine: Moroccan cuisine is a very diverse cuisine, with many influences, due to the interaction of Morocco with the outside world for centuries. The cuisine of Morocco is a mix of Berber, Moorish, Mediterranean, Arab, and African influences. The cooks in the royal kitchens of Fez, Meknes, Marrakesh, Rabat and Tetouan refined Moroccan cuisine over the centuries and created the basis for what is known as Moroccan cuisine today.
Main: The Main is a river in Germany, 524 km (329 miles) long (including White Main, 574 km), and it is one of the more significant tributaries of the Rhine. The Main flows through the German states of Bavaria, Baden-Wrttemberg (forming the border with Bavaria for some distance) and Hesse. Its watershed competes with the Danube for water; as a result, many of its boundaries are identical with those of the European Watershed.
Manichaeism: Manichaeism was one of the major Iranian Gnostic religions, originating in Sassanid Persia. Although most of the original writings of the founding prophet Mani (c. 216-276 AD) have been lost, numerous translations and fragmentary texts have survived. Manichaeism is distinguished by its elaborate cosmology describing the struggle between a good, spiritual world of light, and an evil, material world of darkness.
Marshall Plan: The Marshall Plan (from its enactment, officially the European Recovery Program, ERP) was the primary program, 1948-51, of the United States for rebuilding and creating a stronger economic foundation for the countries of Western Europe, and repelling the threat of internal communism after World War II. The initiative was named for Secretary of State George Marshall and was largely the creation of State Department officials, especially William L. Clayton and George F. Kennan.
Martin Van Buren: Martin Van Buren (December 5, 1782 - July 24, 1862) was the eighth President of the United States from 1837 to 1841. Before his presidency, he served as the eighth Vice President (1833-1837) and the 10th Secretary of State under Andrew Jackson. He was a key organizer of the Democratic Party, a dominant figure in the Second Party System, and the first president who was not of British descent- his ancestry was Dutch.
Melbourne Cricket Ground: The Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) is an Australian sports stadium located in Yarra Park in inner Melbourne, home to the Melbourne Cricket Club. It is the largest stadium in Australia, and holds the world record for the highest light towers at any sporting venue. The MCG is within walking distance of the city centre, and is serviced by Richmond and Jolimont train stations. It is part of the Melbourne Sports and Entertainment Precinct.
Mariculture: Mariculture is a specialized branch of aquaculture involving the cultivation of marine organisms for food and other products in the open ocean, an enclosed section of the ocean, or in tanks, ponds or raceways which are filled with seawater. An example of the latter is the farming of marine fish, including finfish and shellfish e.g. prawns, or oysters and seaweed in saltwater ponds. Non-food products produced by mariculture include: fish meal, nutrient agar, jewellery, and cosmetics.
Memetics: Memetics is a term coined by Douglas Hofstadter in the 1980s, relating to the notion of meme, introduced by Richard Dawkins, as genetics relates to that of gene. Memetics purports to be an approach to evolutionary models of cultural information transfer. A Journal of Memetics was published electronically from 1997 to 2005.
March 25: In England until the 18th Century, this day, Lady Day or the feast of the Annunciation, is accounted the first day of the year and hence New Year's Day. The usage still lingers in the dating of the financial year of the government and other bodies to April 6th - March 25th as modified by the change from the Julian to the Gregorian Calendar.
Moses Amyraut: Moses Amyraut (September 1596 - January 8, 1664), also known as Amyraldus, was a French Protestant theologian and metaphysician. He is perhaps most noted for his modifications to Calvinist theology regarding the nature of Christ's atonement, which is referred to as Amyraldism or Amyraldianism.
List of Governors of Michigan: The Governor of Michigan is the chief executive of the U.S. state of Michigan. The following are governors of the Territory of Michigan and the state of Michigan.
Project Mercury: Project Mercury was the first human spaceflight program of the United States. It ran from 1959 through 1963 with the goal of putting a human in orbit around the Earth. The Mercury-Atlas 6 flight on 20 February 1962 was the first Mercury flight to achieve this goal. Early planning and research was carried out by the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, and the program was officially conducted by the newly created NASA.
List of islands of Michigan: The following is a list of islands of Michigan. Michigan has the second longest coastline of any state after Alaska. Being bordered by four of the five Great LakesErie, Huron, Michigan, and SuperiorMichigan also has 64,980 inland lakes and ponds, as well as innumerable rivers, that may contain their own islands included in this list. The majority of the islands are within the Great Lakes. Other islands can also be found within other waterways of the Great Lake system, including Lake St.
Gaius Maecenas: Gaius Cilnius Maecenas 13 April 70 BC -October 8 BC was a confidant and political advisor to Octavian (who was to become the first Emperor of Rome as Caesar Augustus) as well as an important patron for the new generation of Augustan poets. During the reign of Augustus, Maecenas served as a quasi-culture minister to the Emperor. His name has become a byword for a wealthy, generous and enlightened patron of the arts.
Meander disambiguation: A meander is a bend in a river.
Murray River: The Murray River, or River Murray and sometimes informally referred to as the "Mighty Murray", is Australia's largest river.
MV Tampa: The ship MV Tampa was built in Korea by Hyundai Heavy Industries for the carrying of shipping containers or cars. It was launched in 1984 and is currently owned by the Norwegian based Wilhelmsen Lines Shipowning.
Marcus Claudius Tacitus: Marcus Claudius Tacitus (ca. 200 - June 276) was a Roman Emperor from September 25 275, to June 276.
Magick: Magick, in the broadest sense, is any act designed to cause intentional change. This article discusses magick as described by Aleister Crowley, a British occultist. The Anglo-Saxon k in Magick is a means of indicating the kind of magic which Crowley performed.
Maya numerals: Maya numerals were a vigesimal numeral system used by the Pre-Columbian Maya civilization. The numerals are made up of three symbols; zero (shell shape), one (a dot) and five (a bar). For example, nineteen (19) is written as four dots in a horizontal row above three horizontal lines stacked upon each other.
May Day: May Day occurs on May 1 and refers to several public holidays. In many countries, May Day is synonymous with International Workers' Day, or Labour Day, a day of political demonstrations and celebrations organised by the unions and socialist groups.
Michael Foot: Michael Mackintosh Foot (23 July 1913 - 3 March 2010) was a British Labour politician and writer, who was a Member of Parliament from 1945 to 1955 and from a by-election in 1960 until 1992. He was also the Leader of the Opposition from 1980 to 1983. Associated with the Labour left for most of his career, he was a passionate supporter of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament and British withdrawal from the European Economic Community.
Max and Moritz: For the rockets launched in 1934 by Wernher von Braun, see Aggregate series#A2 Max and Moritz (A Story of Seven Boyish Pranks) is a German language illustrated story in verse. This highly inventive, blackly humorous tale, told entirely in rhymed couplets, was written and illustrated by Wilhelm Busch and published in 1865. Many familiar with comic strip history consider it to have been the direct inspiration for the Katzenjammer Kids.
Maxwell Boltzmann distribution: The Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution describes particle speeds in gases, where the particles do not constantly interact with each other but move freely between short collisions. It describes the probability of a particle's speed (the magnitude of its velocity vector) being near a given value as a function of the temperature of the system, the mass of the particle, and that speed value. This probability distribution is named after James Clerk Maxwell and Ludwig Boltzmann.
Mary Shelley: Mary Shelley (n Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin; 30 August 1797 - 1 February 1851) was a British novelist, short story writer, dramatist, essayist, biographer, and travel writer, best known for her Gothic novel Frankenstein: or, The Modern Prometheus (1818). She also edited and promoted the works of her husband, the Romantic poet and philosopher Percy Bysshe Shelley. Her father was the political philosopher William Godwin, and her mother was the philosopher and feminist Mary Wollstonecraft.
Metastability: Metastability is a complex systems' concept describing the time-invariance of their state-describing parameters (coordinates and magnitudes of the spatial distributions of physical or informational quantitites). The 'metastable' states of a system have lifetimes (unchanged state-parameter values) lasting at least 100 times longer than the shortest lived of its states.
Mary Wollstonecraft: Mary Wollstonecraft (27 April 1759 - 10 September 1797) was an eighteenth-century British writer, philosopher, and feminist. During her brief career, she wrote novels, treatises, a travel narrative, a history of the French Revolution, a conduct book, and a children's book. Wollstonecraft is best known for A Vindication of the Rights of Woman (1792), in which she argues that women are not naturally inferior to men, but appear to be only because they lack education.
Margaret Thatcher: Margaret Hilda Thatcher, Baroness Thatcher LG, OM, PC, FRS (born 13 October 1925) served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1979 to 1990 and Leader of the Conservative Party from 1975 to 1990. She is the only woman to have held either post. Born in Grantham in Lincolnshire, England, she read chemistry at Somerville College, Oxford and later trained as a barrister. She won a seat in the 1959 general election, becoming the MP for Finchley as a Conservative.
Molecular mass: The molecular mass (abbreviated M) of a substance is the mass of one molecule of that substance, in unified atomic mass unit(s) u (equal to 1/12 the mass of one isotope of carbon-12). This is distinct from the relative molecular mass of a molecule, frequently referred to by the term molecular weight and abbreviated as MW, which is the ratio of the mass of that molecule to 1/12 of the mass of carbon 12 and is a dimensionless number. Relative molecular mass is abbreviated to Mr.
Mild ale: Mild ale is a low-gravity beer with a predominantly malty palate that originated in Britain in the 1600s or earlier. Modern mild ales are mainly dark coloured with an abv of 3% to 3.6%, though there are lighter hued examples, as well as stronger examples reaching 6% abv and higher. The term mild originally meant young beer or ale as opposed to "stale" aged beer or ale with its resulting "tang". In more recent times it has been interpreted as denoting "mildly hopped".
Mars Society: The Mars Society is an international space advocacy non-profit organization dedicated to encouraging the Manned mission to Mars, the exploration and settlement of the Red Planet. It was founded by Robert Zubrin and others in 1998 and attracted the support of notable science fiction writers and filmmakers, including Kim Stanley Robinson and James Cameron.
Methyl group: In chemistry, a methyl group is a hydrophobic alkyl functional group named after methane. It has the formula -CH3 and is often abbreviated -Me. Such hydrocarbon groups occur in many organic compounds. Methyl groups can be incorporated into organic compounds by an SN2 reaction on iodomethane, or by the reaction of methyl lithium or MeMgCl with a carbon atom that is substituted with a leaving group.
Minerva: Minerva (Menrfa, or Menrva) was the Roman goddess whom Hellenizing Romans from the second century BC onwards equated with the Greek goddess Athena. She was the virgin goddess of poetry, medicine, wisdom, commerce, weaving, crafts, magic, and the inventor of music. She is often depicted with an owl, her sacred creature and, through this connection, a symbol of wisdom. This article focuses on Minerva in ancient Rome and in cultic practice.
Mars Direct: Mars Direct is a proposal for a cost-effective Manned mission to Mars that could be conducted with current technology. It was originally detailed in a research paper by NASA engineers Robert Zubrin and David Baker in 1990, and later expanded upon in Zubrin's 1996 book The Case for Mars. It now serves as a staple of Zubrin's speaking engagements and general advocacy as head of the Mars Society, an organization devoted to the colonization of Mars.
Metallic bond: Metallic bonding is the electromagnetic interaction between delocalized electrons, called conduction electrons and gathered in an "electron sea", and the metallic nuclei within metals. Understood as the sharing of "free" electrons among a lattice of positively-charged ions, metallic bonding is sometimes compared with that of molten salts; however, this simplistic view holds true for very few metals.
Max Planck: Max Planck (April 23, 1858 - October 4, 1947) was a German physicist. He is considered to be the founder of the quantum theory, and thus one of the most important physicists of the twentieth century. Planck was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1918.
Mars Attacks: Mars Attacks is a science fiction trading card series released in 1962. The cards tell the story of the invasion of Earth by cruel, hideous Martians. Scenes depicted bizarre methods of attack, torture and slaughter the Martians used. The story ends with a combined Earth invasion fleet attacking Mars by landing on the planet and destroying it. The cards proved popular with children but their explicit gore and implied sexual content caused an outcry, leading the company to halt production.
Model theory: In mathematics, model theory is the study of (classes of) mathematical structures such as groups, fields, graphs, or even universes of set theory, using tools from mathematical logic. A structure that gives meaning to the sentences of a formal language is called a model for the language. If a model for a language moreover satisfies a particular sentence or theory (set of sentences), it is called a model of the sentence or theory. Model theory has close ties to algebra and universal algebra.
Moncton: Moncton is a Canadian city located in Westmorland County, New Brunswick. The city is situated in southeastern New Brunswick, within the Petitcodiac River Valley, and lies at the geographic centre of the Maritime Provinces. The community has gained the nickname "Hub City" because of its central location and also because Moncton has historically been the railway and land transportation hub for the Maritime Provinces.
Montreal Protocol: The Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer (a protocol to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer) is an international treaty designed to protect the ozone layer by phasing out the production of a number of substances believed to be responsible for ozone depletion. The treaty was opened for signature on September 16, 1987, and entered into force on January 1, 1989, followed by a first meeting in Helsinki, May 1989.
Madhuri Dixit: Madhuri Dixit (born Madhuri Shankar Dixit on 15 May 1967) is an Indian Bollywood actress. Throughout the late 1980s and 1990s, she established herself as one of Hindi cinema's leading actresses and accomplished dancers. She appeared in numerous commercial successes and was recognised for several performances as well as dance numbers in various films. Dixit is often cited by the media as one of the most prominent female actresses in Bollywood.
Underground: Underground may refer to: The regions beneath the surface of the Earth
Madeira River: The Madeira River is a major waterway in South America, approximately 3,380 km (2,100 miles) long. The Madeira is the longest tributary of the Amazon. A map from Emanuel Bowen in 1747, held by the David Rumsey Map Collection, refers to the Madeira by the pre-colonial, indigenous name Cuyari: "The River of Cuyari, called by the Portuguese Madeira or the wood River, is formed by two great Rivers, which join near its mouth.
Maria Gaetana Agnesi: Maria Gaetana Agnesi (May 16, 1718 - January 9, 1799) was an Italian linguist, mathematician, and philosopher. Agnesi (pronounced 'Anyesi') is credited with writing the first book discussing both differential and integral calculus. She was an honorary member of the faculty at the University of Bologna. According to Dirk Jan Struik, Agnesi is "the first important woman mathematician since Hypatia (fifth century A.D. )".
Morona: The Morona is a tributary to the Amazon River, and flows parallel to the Pastaza River and immediately to the west of it, and is the last stream of any importance on the northern side of the Amazon before reaching the Pongo de Manseriche. It is formed from a multitude of water-courses which descend the slopes of the Ecuadorian Andes south of the gigantic volcano of Sangay; but it soon reaches the plain, which commences where it receives its Cusulima branch.
Moby-Dick: Moby-Dick is a novel first published in 1851 by American author Herman Melville. Originally misunderstood by its contemporary audiences and critics, Moby-Dick is now often referred to as The Great American Novel and is considered one of the treasures of world literature. The story tells the adventures of the wandering sailor Ishmael and his voyage on the whaleship Pequod, commanded by Captain Ahab.
Mara n River: The Mara River rises about 160 km to the northeast of Lima, Peru, flows through a deeply-eroded Andean valley in a northwesterly direction, along the eastern base of the Cordillera of the Andes, as far as 5 degrees 36' southern latitude; then it makes a great bend to the northeast, and cuts through the inland Andes, until at the Pongo de Manseriche it flows through the plains. After its confluence with Ro Ucayali, the Mara is given the name of the Amazon River.
Max Newman: Maxwell Herman Alexander Newman (7 February 1897 - 22 February 1984) was a British mathematician and codebreaker.
Measure: Measure can mean: In law: Measure of the Church of England is a law passed by the General Synod and the UK Parliament equivalent of an Act.
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority: The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, often referred to as the MBTA or simply The T, is "a body politic and corporate, and a political subdivision" of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Measure mathematics: In mathematics, more specifically in measure theory, a measure on a set is a systematic way to assign to each suitable subset a number, intuitively interpreted as the size of the subset. In this sense, a measure is a generalization of the concepts of length, area, volume, et cetera. A particularly important example is the Lebesgue measure on a Euclidean space, which assigns the conventional length, area and volume of Euclidean geometry to suitable subsets of R, n=1,2,3,....
Map: A map is a visual representation of an areaa symbolic depiction highlighting relationships between elements of that space such as objects, regions, and themes. Many maps are static two-dimensional, geometrically accurate (or approximately accurate) representations of three-dimensional space, while others are dynamic or interactive, even three-dimensional. Although most commonly used to depict geography, maps may represent any space, real or imagined, without regard to context or scale; e.g.
Motorcycle: A motorcycle (also called a motorbicycle, motorbike, bike, or cycle) is a single-track, two-wheeled motor vehicle. Motorcycles vary considerably depending on the task for which they are designed, such as long distance travel, navigating congested urban traffic, cruising, sport and racing, or off-road conditions. Motorcycles are the most affordable form of motorised transport in many parts of the world and, for most of the world's population, they are also the most common type of motor vehicle.
Marvel Super Heroes role-playing game: Marvel Superheroes (MSHRPG) aka "the FASERIP system" is a role playing game set in the Marvel Universe, first published by TSR under license from Marvel Comics in 1984. In 1986, TSR published an expanded edition, entitled the Marvel Superheroes Advanced Game. Both editions were written by Jeff Grubb, and both use essentially the same game system.
Mineralogy: Mineralogy is the study of chemistry, crystal structure, and physical properties of minerals. Specific studies within mineralogy include the processes of mineral origin and formation, classification of minerals, their geographical distribution, as well as their utilization.
Meson: In particle physics, mesons are subatomic particles composed of one quark and one antiquark. They are part of the hadron particle familyparticles made of quarks. The other members of the hadron family are the baryonssubatomic particles composed of three quarks.
Management: Management in all business and human organization activity is the act of getting people together to accomplish desired goals and objectives. Management comprises planning, organizing, staffing, leading or directing, and controlling an organization (a group of one or more people or entities) or effort for the purpose of accomplishing a goal. Resourcing encompasses the deployment and manipulation of human resources, financial resources, technological resources, and natural resources.
Maple syrup: Maple syrup is a sweetener made from the sap of some maple trees. In cold climate areas, these trees store sugar in their roots before the winter and the sap which rises in the spring can be tapped and concentrated. Quebec, Canada, produces most of the world's supply of maple syrup. The United States is the only other major producer and the leading consumer. Maple syrup is most often eaten with waffles, pancakes, oatmeal, crumpets and French toast.
Matthew: Matthew may refer to: Matthew (name) Matthew (surname), for people with the surname Matthew Matthew (ship), the ship sailed by John Cabot in 1497 from Bristol to North America Matthew (album), an album by rapper Kool Keith In the Bible: Matthew the Evangelist, or Saint Matthew, one of the apostles of Jesus Gospel of Matthew, a book of the Bible
Macron: A macron, from the Greek v (makr), meaning "long", is a diacritic placed above a vowel (and, more rarely, under or above a consonant). It was originally used to mark a long syllable in Gro-Roman metrics, but now also indicates that the vowel is long. (This is the opposite of a breve , used to indicate originally a short syllable and now also a short vowel. ) Distinctions between long and short vowels are often phonemic.
Molecular cloud: A molecular cloud, sometimes called a stellar nursery if star formation is occurring within, is a type of interstellar cloud whose density and size permits the formation of molecules, most commonly molecular hydrogen (H2). Molecular hydrogen is difficult to detect by infrared and radio observations, so the molecule most often used to determine the presence of H2 is CO.
Male disambiguation: Male may refer to: male, in biology, the half of a reproduction system that produces sperm cells man, in the social sciences, the gender role to which men in most human cultures are expected to conform in hardware and electronics, a type of connector, generally a "plug.
Minoru Yamasaki: Minoru Yamasaki (, Yamasaki Minoru, December 1, 1912 - February 7, 1986) was an American architect of Japanese descent, best known for his design of the twin towers of the World Trade Center buildings 1 and 2. Yamasaki was one of the most prominent architects of the 20th century. He and fellow architect Edward Durell Stone are generally considered to be the two master practitioners of "romanticized modernism".
Mosque: A mosque is a . The word "mosque" in English refers to all types of buildings dedicated for Islamic worship, although there is a distinction in Arabic between the smaller, privately owned mosque and the larger, "collective" mosque, which has more community and social aspects. The mosque serves as a place where Muslims can come together for salat (prayer) as well as a center for information, education, and dispute settlement. The Imam leads the prayer.
M16 rifle: The M16 (more formally Rifle, Caliber 5.56 mm, M16) is the United States military designation for the AR-15 rifle. Colt purchased the rights to the AR-15 from ArmaLite and currently uses that designation only for semi-automatic versions of the rifle. The M16 rifle fires the 5.56x45mm cartridge and can produce massive wounding and hydrostatic shock effects when the bullet impacts at high velocity and yaws in tissue leading to fragmentation and rapid transfer of energy.
Marlon Brando: Marlon Brando, Jr. (April 3, 1924 - July 1, 2004) was an American actor who performed for over half a century. He was best known for his roles as Stanley Kowalski in A Streetcar Named Desire and his Academy Award-winning performance as Terry Malloy in On the Waterfront, both directed by Elia Kazan in the early 1950s.
Meteorology: Meteorology is the interdisciplinary scientific study of the atmosphere that focuses on weather processes and forecasting (in contrast with climatology). Studies in the field stretch back millennia, though significant progress in meteorology did not occur until the eighteenth century. The nineteenth century saw breakthroughs occur after observing networks developed across several countries.
Mount: Mount may refer to:
Meitnerium: Meitnerium is a chemical element with the symbol Mt and atomic number 109. It is placed as the heaviest member of group 9 (or VIII) in the periodic table but a sufficiently stable isotope is not known at this time which would allow chemical experiments to confirm its position, unlike its lighter neighbours.
Madeira: Madeira is a Portuguese archipelago that lies between 3222.3N 1616.5W; / ;32.3717 16.275; / 32.3717; -16.275 and 337.8N 1716.65W; / ;33.13 17.2775; / 33.13; -17.2775 in the north Atlantic Ocean. It is one of the Autonomous regions of Portugal, with Madeira Island and Porto Santo Island being the only inhabited islands. Madeira is part of the EU as an outermost region of the European Union.
Monosaccharide: Monosaccharides are the most basic units of biologically important carbohydrates. They are the simplest form of sugar and are usually colorless, water-soluble, crystalline solids. Some monosaccharides have a sweet taste. Examples of monosaccharides include glucose (dextrose), fructose (levulose), galactose, xylose and ribose. Monosaccharides are the building blocks of disaccharides such as sucrose and polysaccharides.
Megabyte: The megabyte is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information storage or transmission with two different values depending on context: 1048576 bytes (1024) generally for computer memory; and one million bytes (10, see prefix mega-) generally for computer storage. The IEEE Standards Board has decided that "Mega will mean 1 000 000", with exceptions allowed for the base-two meaning. In rare cases, it is used to mean 1000&times;1024 (1024000) bytes.
Microscopium: Microscopium is a small constellation in the southern sky, created in the eighteenth century by Nicolas Louis de Lacaille. Its name is Latin for microscope. Its stars are very faint and hardly visible from most of the non-tropical northern hemisphere.
IC 342/Maffei Group: The IC 342/Maffei Group (also known as the IC 342 Group or the Maffei 1 Group) is the nearest group of galaxies to the Local Group. The group can be described as a binary group; the member galaxies are mostly concentrated around either IC 342 or Maffei 1, both of which are the brightest galaxies within the group. The group is one of many located within the Virgo Supercluster.
Meter poetry: In poetry, the meter (or metre) is the basic rhythmic structure of a verse. Many traditional verse forms prescribe a specific verse meter, or a certain set of meters alternating in a particular order. Prosody is a more general linguistic term, that includes poetical meter but also the rhythmic aspects of prose, whether formal or informal. The scansion of a poem is the analysis of its metrical structure.
M81 Group: The M81 Group is a group of galaxies in the constellation Ursa Major that contains the well-known galaxies Messier 81 and Messier 82 as well as several other galaxies with high apparent brightnesses. The approximate center of the group is located at a distance of 3.6 Mpc, making it one of the nearest groups to the Local Group. The group is estimated to have a total mass of (1.03 0.17) 10M. The M81 Group, the Local Group, and other nearby groups all lie within the Virgo Supercluster.
Mimeograph: The stencil duplicator or mimeograph machine (often abbreviated to mimeo) is a low-cost printing press that works by forcing ink through a stencil onto paper. Along with spirit duplicators and hectographs, mimeographs were for many decades used to print short-run office work, classroom materials, and church bulletins. They also were critical to the development of early fanzines because their low cost and availability enabled publication of amateur writings.
Majed Moqed: A former law student, Majed Mashaan Gh. Moqed (June 18, 1977 - September 11, 2001) was one of five men named by the FBI to be hijackers of American Airlines Flight 77 in the September 11 attack.
Mega-: Mega- (symbol M) is an prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of million. Confirmed in 1960, it comes from the Greek , meaning great.
Meteorite: A meteorite is a natural object originating in outer space that survives impact with the Earth's surface. Most meteorites derive from small astronomical objects called meteoroids, but they are also sometimes produced by impacts of asteroids. When it enters the atmosphere, impact pressure causes the body to heat up and emit light, thus forming a fireball, also known as a meteor or shooting/falling star.
Mark Bingham: Mark Kendall Bingham was an American public relations executive who founded his own company, the Bingham Group. He died at age 31 in the September 11, 2001 terrorist attack on board United Airlines Flight 93.
Maciej P a y ski: Maciej Payski (born February 10, 1958 in Mynary) is a Polish liberal-conservatism politician. Payski began his political career in 1980 / 1981 as one of the leaders of the Students' Solidarity; he was governor of the Gdask Voivodship from August 1990 to July 1996, and was elected to the Sejm (the lower house of the Polish parliament) in September 1997. From 1997 to 2001, he also held the office of marshal of the Sejm, after being elected without a single vote against him.
Manner of articulation: In linguistics, manner of articulation describes how the tongue, lips, jaw, and other speech organs are involved in making a sound make contact. Often the concept is only used for the production of consonants. For any place of articulation, there may be several manners, and therefore several homorganic consonants. One parameter of manner is stricture, that is, how closely the speech organs approach one another.
Mostaganem Province: Mostaganem is a province of Algeria. The capital is Mostaganem. Other localities include Ain Nouissi, Ain Tadles, Tazgait and Stidia.
Motherboard: A motherboard is the central printed circuit board (PCB) in many modern computers and holds many of the crucial components of the system, while providing connectors for other peripherals. The motherboard is sometimes alternatively known as the main board, system board, or, on Apple computers, the logic board. It is also sometimes casually shortened to mobo.
Monica Lewinsky: Monica Samille Lewinsky (born July 23, 1973) is an American woman with whom then-United States President Bill Clinton admitted to having had an "improper relationship" while Lewinsky worked at the White House in 1995 and 1996. The affair and its repercussions, especially the impeachment of Bill Clinton, became known as the Lewinsky scandal.
Mannerism: Mannerism is a period of European art that emerged from the later years of the Italian High Renaissance around 1520. It lasted until about 1580 in Italy, when a more Baroque style began to replace it, but Northern Mannerism continued into the early 17th century throughout much of Europe.
Pressure measurement: Many techniques have been developed for the measurement of pressure and vacuum. Instruments used to measure pressure are called pressure gauges or vacuum gauges. A manometer could also be referring to a pressure measuring instrument, usually limited to measuring pressures near to atmospheric. The term manometer is often used to refer specifically to liquid column hydrostatic instruments.
Medieval dance: Sources for an understanding of dance in Europe in the Middle Ages are limited and fragmentary, being composed of some depictions in paintings and illuminations, a few musical examples of what may be dances, and scattered allusions in literary texts. The first detailed descriptions of dancing only date from 1450 in Italy, which is after the start of the Renaissance.
Medieval music: The term medieval music encompasses European music written during the Middle Ages. This era begins with the fall of the Roman Empire and ends in approximately the middle of the fifteenth century. Establishing the end of the medieval era and the beginning of the Renaissance is difficult; the usage in this article is the one usually adopted by musicologists.
Maser: A maser is a device that produces coherent electromagnetic waves through amplification by stimulated emission. Historically, maser derives from the original, upper-case acronym MASER (Microwave Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation). The lower-case usage arose from technological development having rendered the original denotation imprecise, because contemporary masers emit EM waves across a broader band of the electromagnetic spectrum; thus, the physicist Charles H.
Megatokyo: Megatokyo is an English-language webcomic created by Fred Gallagher and Rodney Caston, debuting on August 14, 2000, and then written and illustrated solely by Gallagher since July 17, 2002. Gallagher's style of writing and illustrations is heavily influenced by Japanese manga. Megatokyo is freely available on its official website.
Mark Antony: Marcus Antonius (c. January 14, 83 BC-August 1, 30 BC), known in English as Mark Antony, was a Roman politician and general. He was an important supporter and the loyal friend of Gaius Julius Caesar as a military commander and administrator, being Caesar's second cousin, once removed, by his mother Julia Antonia. After Caesar's assassination, Antony formed an official political alliance with Octavian and Marcus Aemilius Lepidus, known to historians today as the Second Triumvirate.
Mario Botta: Mario Botta (born April 1, 1943) is a Swiss architect. He studied at the Liceo Artistico in Milan and the IUAV in Venice. His ideas were influenced by Le Corbusier, Carlo Scarpa, Louis Kahn. He opened his own practice in 1970 in Lugano. He designed his first buildings at age 16, a two-family house at Morbio Superiore in Ticino.
Mesa programming language: Mesa was an innovative programming language developed in the late 1970s at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center in Palo Alto, California, United States. The language was named after the mesas of the American Southwest, referring to its design intent to be a "high-level" programming language. Mesa is an ALGOL-like language, designed around the concept of modular programming, with a strict separation between the (programmer's) interface of a library and its implementation.
Manchester United F.C.: Manchester United Football Club is an English Premier League football club which plays at Old Trafford in Greater Manchester. The club was formed as Newton Heath in 1878, joined the Football League in 1892, and has played in the top division of English football since 1938 with the exception of the 1974-75 season. Average attendances at the club have been higher than any other team in English football for all but six seasons since 1964-65.
Marsilio Ficino: Marsilio Ficino was one of the most influential humanist philosophers of the early Italian Renaissance, an astrologer, a reviver of Neoplatonism who was in touch with every major academic thinker and writer of his day, and the first translator of Plato's complete extant works into Latin. His Florentine Academy, an attempt to revive Plato's school, had enormous influence on the direction and tenor of the Italian Renaissance and the development of European philosophy.
Medium: Medium may refer to:
Morphogenesis: Morphogenesis (from the Greek morph shape and genesis creation, literally, "beginning of the shape"), is the biological process that causes an organism to develop its shape. It is one of three fundamental aspects of developmental biology along with the control of cell growth and cellular differentiation. The process controls the organized spatial distribution of cells during the embryonic development of an organism.
MCA: MCA may refer to:
Magical organization: A magical organization is an organization created for the practice of magic or to further the knowledge of magic among its members. "Magic" in this case refers to occult, metaphysical and paranormal activities, not to the performance of stage magic. Magical organizations can include hermetic orders, Wiccan covens or Wiccan circles, esoteric societies, arcane colleges, witches' covens, and other groups which may utilize different terminology
Muhammad ibn Abd-al-Wahhab: Muhammad ibn 'Abd Al-Wahhab ibn Sulayman ibn 'Ali ibn Muhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Rashid al-Tamimi (1703-1792) was an Islamic scholar born in Najd, in present-day Saudi Arabia. Using proofs from the Qur'an and Sunnah, Shaykh al-Islam Muhammad ibn 'Abd Al-Wahhab ibn Sulayman ibn 'Ali ibn Muhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Rashid al-Tamimi believed that those who practice innovation in Islam are Kufr and Shirk. Moreover he believed that innovation is practiced in Sufism and mostly in Shia Islam.
Machine translation: Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT, is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of computer software to translate text or speech from one natural language to another. At its basic level, MT performs simple substitution of words in one natural language for words in another.
Maine: The State of Maine is a state in the New England region of the northeastern United States, bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the southeast, New Hampshire to the southwest, and the Canadian provinces of Quebec to the northwest and New Brunswick to the northeast. Maine is the northernmost portion of New England and is the easternmost state in the contiguous United States.
Central moment: In probability theory and statistics, the k moment about the mean (or k central moment) of a real-valued random variable X is the quantity k:= E[(X &minus; E)], where E is the expectation operator. For a continuous univariate probability distribution with probability density function f(x) the moment about the mean is For random variables that have no mean, such as the Cauchy distribution, central moments are not defined.
Montana: Montana is a state in the Western United States. The western third of the state contains numerous mountain ranges; other 'island' ranges are found in the central third of the state, for a total of 77 named ranges of the Rocky Mountains. This geographical fact is reflected in the state's name, derived from the Spanish word monta (mountain). Montana's nickname is the "Treasure State. " Other nicknames include "Land of Shining Mountains," "Big Sky Country," and the slogan "The Last Best Place.
Mehmed I: Mehmed I lebi was a Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1413 to 1421.
Murad II: Murad II Kodja (June 1404, Amasya - February 3, 1451, Edirne) was the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1421 to 1451 (except for a period from 1444 to 1446). Murad II's reign was marked by the long war he fought against the Christian peoples of the Balkans and the Turkish emirates in Anatolia, a conflict that lasted 25 years. He was brought up in Amasya, and ascended the throne on the death of his father Mehmed I.
Murad I: Murad I (March or June 29, 1326, Sogut or Bursa - June 15, 1389, Battle of Kosovo) was the ruler of the Ottoman Empire, Sultan of Rm, from 1362 to 1389. He was the son of Orhan I and the Valide Sultan Nilfer Hatun, daughter of the Prince of Yarhisar or Byzantine princess Theodora Kantakouzene (also named Nilfer), who was of ethnic Greek descent and became the ruler following his father's death in 1362.
Mehmed III: Mehmed III Adli (May 26, 1566 - December 21/22, 1603) was born at Manisa Palace a son of Murad III, whom he succeeded as sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1595 until his death. His mother was his father's maternal relative Valide Sultan Safiye Sultan, originally named Sofia Baffo, a Venetian noblewoman. Mehmed III remains notorious even in Ottoman history for having nineteen of his brothers and half brothers murdered to secure power. He also killed over twenty of his sisters as well.
Murad III: Murad III was the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1574 until his death. Murad III was the eldest son of sultan Selim II (1566-74) and Valide Sultan Nurbanu Sultan, and succeeded his father in 1574. Murad began his reign by having his five younger brothers strangled. His authority was undermined by the harem influences, more specifically, those of his mother and later of his favorite wife Safiye Sultan.
Murad IV: Murad IV Ghazi (July 26/27, 1612 - February 8/9, 1640) was the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1623 to 1640, known both for restoring the authority of the state and for the brutality of his methods. Murad IV was born in Istanbul, the son of Sultan Ahmed I (1603-17) and the ethnic Greek Valide Sultan Kadinefendi Kem Sultan (also known as Mahpeyker), originally named Anastasia.
Musical saw: A musical saw, also called a singing saw, is the application of a hand saw as a musical instrument. The sound created is an ethereal tone, very similar to the theremin or a woman's clear voice. The musical saw is classified as a friction idiophone with direct friction (131.22) under the Hornbostel-Sachs system of musical instrument classification.
Mustafa I: Mustafa I Deli (born 1591/1592 in Manisa Palace - died January 20, 1639 at Topkapi Palace, Istanbul), son of Mehmed III, was the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire from 1617 to 1618 and from 1622 to 1623. His mother was Valide Sultan Handan Sultan, an ethnic Greek originally named Helena.
Musical Instrument Digital Interface: MIDI (Musical Instrument Digital Interface), pronounced /di/) is an industry-standard protocol defined in 1982 that enables electronic musical instruments such as keyboard controllers, computers, and other electronic equipment to communicate, control, and synchronize with each other. MIDI allows computers, synthesizers, MIDI controllers, sound cards, samplers and drum machines to control one another, and to exchange system data.
Masamune Shirow: Masamune Shirow is an internationally renowned manga artist, born Masanori Ota ( ta Masanori) on November 23, 1961. Masamune Shirow is a pen name, based on a famous swordsmith, Masamune. He is best known for the manga Ghost in the Shell, which has since been turned into two theatrical anime movies, two anime TV series, an anime TV movie, and several video games. Shirow is also popular for creating erotic art.
Multitier architecture: In software engineering, multi-tier architecture (often referred to as n-tier architecture) is a client-server architecture in which the presentation, the application processing, and the data management are logically separate processes. For example, an application that uses middleware to service data requests between a user and a database employs multi-tier architecture. The most widespread use of "multi-tier architecture" refers to three-tier architecture.
Microcode: Microcode is a layer of hardware-level instructions and/or data structures involved in the implementation of higher level machine code instructions in many computers and other processors; it resides in a special high-speed memory and translates machine instructions into sequences of detailed circuit-level operations. It helps separate the machine instructions from the underlying electronics so that instructions can be designed and altered more freely.
Musique concr te: Musique concre (French for "concrete music" or "real music") is a form of electroacoustic music that utilises acousmatic sound as a compositional resource. The compositional material is not restricted to the inclusion of sonorities derived from musical instruments or voices, nor to elements traditionally thought of as "musical". The theoretical underpinnings of the aesthetic were developed by Pierre Schaeffer, beginning in the late 1940s.
Myrinet: Myrinet, ANSI/VITA 26-1998, is a high-speed local area networking system designed by Myricom to be used as an interconnect between multiple machines to form computer clusters. Myrinet has much lower protocol overhead than standards such as Ethernet, and therefore provides better throughput, less interference, and lower latency while using the host CPU.
Metric space: In mathematics, a metric space is a set where a notion of distance between elements of the set is defined. The metric space which most closely corresponds to our intuitive understanding of space is the 3-dimensional Euclidean space. In fact, the notion of "metric" is a generalization of the Euclidean metric arising from the four long-known properties of the Euclidean distance. The Euclidean metric defines the distance between two points as the length of the straight line connecting them.
Marine biology: Marine biology is the scientific study of organisms in the ocean or other marine or brackish bodies of water. Given that in biology many phyla, families and genera have some species that live in the sea and others that live on land, marine biology classifies species based on the environment rather than on taxonomy. Marine biology differs from marine ecology as marine ecology is focused on how organisms interact with each other and environment and biology is the study of the animal itself.
Mach: Mach may refer to: Mach number, a measure of speed Gillette Mach3, a manual razor with three blades Mach bands, an optical illusion Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor, abbreviated mACh Ford Mustang Mach 1, an American car Machiavellianism, a political philosophy
Multics Relational Data Store: Multics Relational Data Store was the first commercial relational database management system. It was sold for the first time in 1976.
Microkernel: In computer science, a microkernel is a computer kernel that provides the mechanisms needed to implement an operating system, such as low-level address space management, thread management, and inter-process communication. If the hardware provides multiple privilege levels, then the microkernel is the only software executing at the most privileged level (generally referred to as supervisor or kernel mode).
Multihull: A multihull is a ship, vessel, craft or boat with more than one hull. Multihulls include: Proas, which have two differently shaped or sized hulls with lateral symmetry; catamarans, which have two hulls with longitudinal symmetry; and trimarans, which have a main hull in the center and symmetric stabilizing hulls on either side. These types of boats have several advantages compared to single-hull boats.
Mike Oldfield: Michael Gordon "Mike" Oldfield is an English multi-instrumentalist musician and composer, working a style that blends progressive rock, folk, ethnic or world music, classical music, electronic music, New Age and more recently dance. His music is often elaborate and complex in nature. He is best known for his hit 1973 album Tubular Bells, which broke new ground as an instrumental album and launched Virgin Records, and for his 1983 hit single "Moonlight Shadow".
Mutual recursion: Mutual recursion is a form of recursion where two mathematical or computational functions are defined in terms of each other.
Mondegreen: A mondegreen is the mishearing or misinterpretation of a phrase, typically a standardized phrase such as a line in a poem or a lyric in a song, due to near homophony, in a way that gives it a new meaning.
Merge sort: Merge sort is an O(n log n) comparison-based sorting algorithm. In most implementations it is stable, meaning that it preserves the input order of equal elements in the sorted output. It is an example of the divide and conquer algorithmic paradigm. It was invented by John von Neumann in 1945.
Metasyntactic variable: In logic, mathematics and computer science, a metasyntactic variable (also metalinguistic variable) is a symbol or set of symbols in a metalanguage which stands for a symbol or set of symbols in some object language. For instance, in the sentence: Let A and B be two arbitrary formulas of a formal language . The symbols A and B are not symbols of the object language , they are metasyntactic variables in the metalanguage (in this case, English) which is talking about the object language .
Maule Air: Maule Air, Inc. , located in Moultrie, Georgia, USA is a manufacturer of popular light, single-engined STOL (Short Take-Off and Landing) aircraft. Founded in 1941 by Belford D. Maule (1911-1995), it is still a family-owned enterprise. The aircraft are tube and fabric designs and are popular with bush pilots thanks to their very low stall speed, their tundra tires and very forgiving oleo strut landing gear.
Shoma Morita: Dr. Morita Masatake, also read as Morita Shoma (1874 - 1938, was a contemporary of Sigmund Freud and the founder of Morita Therapy, a branch of clinical psychology strongly influenced by Zen Buddhism. In his capacity as the head of psychiatry for a large Tokyo hospital, Morita began developing his methods while working with sufferers of shinkeishitsu, or anxiety disorders with a hypochondriac base.
Montezuma: Montezuma, Moctezuma, Moteczoma, Motecuhzoma, Moteuczomah, are variant spellings and may refer to:
History of Mac OS: On January 24, 1984, Apple Computer Inc. introduced the Macintosh personal computer, with the Macintosh 128K model, which came bundled with the Mac OS operating system, then known as the System Software. The Macintosh is often credited with popularizing the graphical user interface. The Mac OS has been pre-installed on almost every Macintosh computer ever sold. The operating system is also sold separately at Apple retail stores, and online.
March 8: For International Women's Day follow link.
Mach number: Mach number (or) is the speed of an object moving through air, or any fluid substance, divided by the speed of sound as it is in that substance. It is commonly used to represent an object's speed (such as an aircraft or missile), when it is travelling at the speed of sound (or multiples thereof).
Minnesota Twins: The Minnesota Twins are an American professional baseball team based in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and play in the Central Division of Major League Baseball's American League. The team is named after the Twin Cities area of Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota. They played in Metropolitan Stadium from 1961 to 1981, the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome from 1982 to 2009, and moved into Target Field on December 22, 2009.
Moving Picture Experts Group: The Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) was formed by the ISO to set standards for audio and video compression and transmission. It was established in 1988 and its first meeting was in May 1988 in Ottawa, Canada. As of late 2005, MPEG has grown to include approximately 350 members per meeting from various industries, universities, and research institutions.
MPEG-1: MPEG-1 is a standard for lossy compression of video and audio. It is designed to compress VHS-quality raw digital video and CD audio down to 1.5 Mbit/s without excessive quality loss, making video CDs, digital cable/satellite TV and digital audio broadcasting (DAB) possible. Today, MPEG-1 has become the most widely compatible lossy audio/video format in the world, and is used in a large number of products and technologies.
Multiplicative function: Outside number theory, the term multiplicative function is usually used for completely multiplicative functions. This article discusses number theoretic multiplicative functions. In number theory, a multiplicative function is an arithmetic function f(n) of the positive integer n with the property that f(1) = 1 and whenever a and b are coprime, then f(ab) = f(a) f(b).
MPEG-2: MPEG-2 is a standard for "the generic coding of moving pictures and associated audio information". It describes a combination of lossy video compression and lossy audio data compression methods which permit storage and transmission of movies using currently available storage media and transmission bandwidth.
Meditation: Meditation is a holistic discipline by which the practitioner attempts to get beyond the reflexive, "thinking" mind into a deeper state of relaxation or awareness. Meditation is a component of many religions, and has been practiced since antiquity. It is also practiced outside religious traditions.
MPEG-3: MPEG-3 is the designation for a group of audio and video coding standards agreed upon by the Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) designed to handle HDTV signals at 1080p in the range of 20 to 40 megabits per second. MPEG-3 was launched as an effort to address the need of an HDTV standard while work on MPEG-2 was underway, but it was soon discovered that MPEG-2, at high data rates, would accommodate HDTV.
Mumia Abu-Jamal: Mumia Abu-Jamal (born Wesley Cook on April 24, 1954) is an American convicted murderer, sentenced to death for the December 9, 1981 murder of Philadelphia police officer Daniel Faulkner. He has been described as "perhaps the best known Death-Row prisoner in the world", and his sentence is one of the most debated today. Before his arrest he was a member of the Black Panther Party, an activist, part-time cab driver, journalist, radio personality, news commentator and broadcaster.
Memory address register: The memory address register (MAR) holds the address of the memory location of the next instruction to be executed. While the first instruction is being executed, the address of the next memory location is held by it. The Memory Address Register is half of a minimal interface between a microprogram and computer storage. The other half is a memory data register. Basically, the MAR holds the address of a memory location, but not necessarily just the instructions.
Maritime archaeology: Maritime archaeology (also known as marine archaeology) is a discipline that studies human interaction with the sea, lakes and rivers through the study of vessels, shore side facilities, cargoes, human remains and submerged landscapes. One speciality is underwater archaeology, which studies the past through any submerged remains. Another specialty within maritime archaeology is nautical archaeology, which studies vessel construction and use.
Morihei Ueshiba: Morihei Ueshiba ( , Ueshiba Morihei, December 14, 1883-April 26, 1969) was a famous martial artist and founder of the Japanese martial art of aikido. He is often referred to as Kaiso, meaning "founder", or sensei, "Great Teacher".
MPEG-4: MPEG-4 is a patented collection of methods defining compression of audio and visual (AV) digital data. It was introduced in late 1998 and designated a standard for a group of audio and video coding formats and related technology agreed upon by the ISO/IEC Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) under the formal standard ISO/IEC 14496 - Coding of audio-visual objects. Uses of MPEG-4 include compression of AV data for web and CD distribution, voice and broadcast television applications.
Microassembler: A microassembler (sometimes called a meta-assembler) is a computer program that helps prepare a microprogram to control the low level operation of a computer in much the same way an assembler helps prepare higher level code for a processor. The difference is that the microprogram is usually only developed by the processor manufacturer and works intimately with the hardware. The microprogram defines the instruction set any normal program is written in.
Machine pistol: A machine pistol is a handgun-style, magazine-fed and self-loading firearm, capable of fully automatic or burst fire, and normally chambered for pistol cartridges. The term is a literal translation of Maschinenpistole, the German term for a hand-held automatic weapon.
MLK disambiguation: MLK may refer to: Martin Luther King Jr. , a Christian minister and prominent civil rights leader in the United States Moloch (written "mlk" in unvowelled Hebrew), a Canaanite god Media-Less Kit Marxist-Leninistiska Kampfbundet, a Swedish communist organization Mittellandkanal, a canal in Germany Mooroolbark railway station, Melbourne Moses Lake, Washington, a lake in Washington state MLK (song), a U2 song from the album The Unforgettable Fire Misery Loves Kompany, Tech N9ne album Dr.
Memory data register: The memory data register (MDR) is the register of a computer's control unit that contains the data to be stored in the computer storage (e.g. RAM), or the data after a fetch from the computer storage. It acts like a buffer and holds anything that is copied from the memory ready for the processor to use it. The MDR is a two-way register. When data is fetched from memory and placed into the MDR, it is written to in one direction.
Martin Luther King Jr.: Martin Luther King, Jr. (January 15, 1929 - April 4, 1968) was an American clergyman, activist and prominent leader in the African-American civil rights movement. His main legacy was to secure progress on civil rights in the United States, and he has become a human rights icon: King is recognized as a martyr by two Christian churches. A Baptist minister, King became a civil rights activist early in his career.
Modular arithmetic: In mathematics, modular arithmetic (sometimes called clock arithmetic) is a system of arithmetic for integers, where numbers "wrap around" after they reach a certain value- the modulus. Modular arithmetic was introduced by Carl Friedrich Gauss in his book Disquisitiones Arithmeticae, published in 1801. A familiar use of modular arithmetic is its use in the 12-hour clock, in which the day is divided into two 12 hour periods. If the time is 7:00 now, then 8 hours later it will be 3:00.
Marino Marini sculptor: Marino Marini (February 27, 1901 - August 6, 1980) was an Italian sculptor. Born in Pistoia, Marini is particularly famous for his series of stylised equestrian statues, which feature a man with outstretched arms on a horse. Probably the most famous example is The Angel of the City at the Peggy Guggenheim Collection, Venice. He attended the Accademia Di Belle Arti in Florence in 1917. Although he never abandoned painting, Marini devoted himself primarily to sculpture from about 1922.
Myriad: Myriad (, from , murios, "numberless, countless, infinite", later converted to "myriad" by the Romans) is a classical Greek word for the number 10,000. In modern English, the word refers to an unspecified large quantity. The term myriad is a progression in the commonly used system of describing numbers using tens and hundreds. Small numbers are named in terms of number of tens plus the remainder; for example 76 is seven tens plus six.
Mohamed Al-Fayed: Mohamed Abdel Moneim Fayed (born 1933) is an Egyptian businessman. Amongst his business interests are ownership of Harrods department store in Knightsbridge, London and the English Premiership football team Fulham Football Club. He has two brothers; Ali Fayed and Salah Fayed. Since 1985 he has been married to Finnish socialite and former model Heini Wath. Together they have four children and two grandchildren.
Marmite: Marmite is the name given to two similar food spreads: a British version (original and first) produced in the United Kingdom and later South Africa, and a version produced in New Zealand. Marmite is made from yeast extract, a by-product of beer brewing, and is suitable for vegetarians and vegans. The British version of the product is a sticky, dark brown paste with a distinctive, powerful flavour, which is extremely salty and savoury with umami qualities, somewhat comparable to soy sauce.
Microwave: Microwaves are electromagnetic waves with wavelengths ranging from as long as one meter to as short as one millimeter, or equivalently, with frequencies between 300 MHz and 300 GHz. This broad definition includes both UHF and EHF, and various sources use different boundaries. In all cases, microwave includes the entire SHF band (3 to 30 GHz, or 10 to 1 cm) at minimum, with RF engineering often putting the lower boundary at 1 GHz (30 cm), and the upper around 100 GHz (3mm).
Mary: Mary is a female given name. Mary may also refer to:
Mabon ap Modron: Mabon ap Modron is a figure of Welsh mythology, the son of Modron. Both he and his mother were likely deities in origin, descending from a divine mother-son pair. His name is related to the Romano-British god Maponos, whose name means "divine son"; Modron, in turn, is likely related to the Gaulish goddess Dea Matrona. Mabon was a common name in medieval Wales, and it is difficult to determine whether the various references to Mabons in poetry and the Triads are to the same character.
Manasseh: Manasseh may refer to: Manasseh (tribal patriarch), a son of Joseph, according to the Torah the Tribe of Manasseh, an Israelite tribe Manasseh of Judah, a king of the kingdom of Judah. Manasseh (High Priest), the ancestor of a priest named Jonathan, mentioned in the Book of Judges as being the son of Gershom, son of Manasseh; there is a scribal oddity in the text which means it may actually state Moses rather than Manasseh.
Mobile Suit Gundam: Mobile Suit Gundam (, Kid Senshi Gandamu, lit. Mobile Soldier Gundam, also known as First Gundam, Gundam 0079 or simply 0079) is a televised anime series, created by Sunrise. Created and directed by Yoshiyuki Tomino, it premiered in Japan on Nagoya Broadcasting Network between April 7, 1979, and lasted until January 26, 1980, spanning 43 episodes. It was the very first Gundam series, which has subsequently been adapted into numerous sequels and spin-offs.
Michael Doohan: Michael "Mick" Sydney Doohan AM born 4 June 1965 (1965-06-04) (age 44) in Brisbane, Australia, is a former Grand Prix motorcycle road racing World Champion, who won five consecutive 500 cc World Championships, second only to Giacomo Agostini and equalled by Valentino Rossi. Doohan is considered to be one of the best motorcycle racers in the history of the sport.
Multitasking: Multitasking may refer to any of the following: Computer multitasking - the apparent simultaneous performance of two or more tasks by a computer's central processing unit Media multitasking could involve using a computer, mp3, or any other form of media in conjunction with one another. Human multitasking - The ability of a person to perform more than one task at the same time.
Mancala: Mancala is a family of board games played around the world, sometimes called "sowing" games, or "count-and-capture" games, which describes the game-play. Mancala games play a role in many African and some Asian societies comparable to that of chess in the West, or the game of Go in Eastern Asia. The list of mancala games best known in the Western world includes Kalah and Oware. Other games are Congkak, Omweso, nee tugaluulakh, Bao, Sungka and Igisoro.
Methodism: Methodism is a movement of Christianity represented by a number of organizations, claiming a total of approximately seventy million adherents worldwide. The movement traces its roots to Reverend John Wesley's evangelistic revival movement in the Anglican Church. His younger brother Charles was instrumental in writing much of the hymnody of the Methodist Church. George Whitefield, another significant leader in the movement, was known for his unorthodox ministry of itinerant open-air preaching.
Mano-a-mano: Mano-a-mano is a Spanish construction meaning "hand to hand" . It was used originally for bullfights where two matadors alternate competing for the admiration of the audience. Current Spanish usage describes any kind of competition between two people where they both compete trying to outdo each other. Within the Doce Pares Eskrima fighting system, it is one of the three ranges of engagement, specifically the closest one. This does not indicate solely unarmed combat.
Maastricht: Maastricht is a city and a municipality in the southern part of the Dutch province of Limburg, of which it is the capital. The city is situated on both sides of the Meuse river in the south-eastern part of the Netherlands, on the Belgian border and near the German border. The city is part of the Meuse-Rhine Euroregion, a Euregio whose other main cities include Aachen, Germany and Hasselt and Lie in respectively Dutch-speaking and French-speaking Belgium.
M. C. Escher: Maurits Cornelis Escher (17 June 1898 - 27 March 1972), usually referred to as M.C. Escher, was a Dutch graphic artist. He is known for his often mathematically inspired woodcuts, lithographs, and mezzotints. These feature impossible constructions, explorations of infinity, architecture, and tessellations.
Marv Albert: Marv Albert (born Marvin Philip Aufrichtig; June 12, 1941) is an American television and radio sportscaster. Honored for his work as a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame, he is commonly referred to as "the voice of basketball. " From 1967-2004, he was also known as "the voice of the New York Knicks. " Albert grew up in Brooklyn, where he went to Abraham Lincoln High School. He then attended Syracuse University's Newhouse School of Public Communications from 1960 through 1963.
Minnesota Vikings: The Minnesota Vikings are a professional football team based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Vikings compete in the North Division of the National Football Conference (NFC) in the National Football League (NFL). Prior to divisional realignment in 2002, they had been a member of the Central Division, also known as the Black & Blue Division. The Vikings have been one of the most successful NFL franchises. They currently have the fifth-highest winning percentage in the NFL.
Shang-Chi: Shang-Chi is a Marvel Comics character, often called the "Master of Kung Fu". He was created by writer Steve Englehart and artist Jim Starlin. He has no special superpowers, but he exhibits extraordinary skills in the martial arts and is a master of Wushu (a general name for the various Chinese styles) both empty handed and with weapons, including the staff, nunchaku and double-edged sword.
Mixmaster Morris: Mixmaster Morris, real name, Morris Gould, (born in Brighton, England in 1965) is an ambient DJ and underground musician.
Marcomanni: The Marcomanni were a Germanic tribe, probably related to the Buri, Suebi or Suevi.
Maroboduus: Maroboduus (born c. in 30 BC, died in A.D. 37), was king of the Marcomanni. The name "Maroboduus" can be broken down into two Celtic elements, mro- meaning "great" (cf. Welsh mawr, Irish m), and bodwos meaning "raven". As there was extensive mingling of Germanic tribes and Celts in this period, a Germanic or mixed Germanic-Celtic tribe led by a man with a Celtic name would be nothing unusual. Maroboduus was born into a noble family of the Marcomanni.
Manx language: Manx, also known as Manx Gaelic, is a Goidelic language spoken on the Isle of Man. The last native speaker, Ned Maddrell, died in 1974, but in recent years it has been the subject of language revival efforts, and it is now the medium of education at the Bunscoill Ghaelgagh [bn-skol lgax], a primary school for four- to eleven-year-olds in St John's.
Minor league baseball: Minor league baseball is a hierarchy of professional baseball leagues in North America that compete at levels below that of Major League Baseball. All of the minor leagues are operated as independent businesses, and many are members of Minor League Baseball, an umbrella organization for leagues that have agreements to operate as affiliates of Major League Baseball.
Maus disambiguation: Maus may refer to: "Maus", the German word for "mouse" Maus, a series of Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novels by Art Spiegelman Maus (band), an Icelandic rock band Panzer VIII Maus, a name for the German World War II Panzerkampfwagen VIII tank prototype, the heaviest tank ever built MAUS mine, an Italian landmine Die Sendung mit der Maus, a children's television show from Germany Burg Maus, a castle in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany
Mike Muuss: Michael John Muuss (October 16, 1958 - November 20, 2000) was the author of the freeware network tool Ping. A graduate of Johns Hopkins University, Muuss was a senior scientist specializing in geometric solid modeling, ray-tracing, MIMD architectures and digital computer networks at the United States Army Research Laboratory in Maryland when he died.
Milwaukee Brewers: The Milwaukee Brewers are a professional baseball team based in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, currently playing in the Central Division of Major League Baseball's National League. The team is named for the city's association with the brewing industry and plays its home games at Miller Park. Originating in Seattle, Washington, as the Seattle Pilots, the club played for one season in 1969 before being acquired in bankruptcy court by current MLB Commissioner Bud Selig and then moved to Milwaukee.
Mousse: Mousse is a form of light and creamy dessert typically made from egg and cream (classically no cream, only egg yolks, egg whites, sugar, and chocolate or other flavorings), usually in combination with other flavors such as chocolate or pureed fruit, although recipes with chicken liver or other savory ingredients also exist. Once only a specialty of French restaurants, chocolate mousse entered into American and English home's cuisine in the 1960s.
Montreal Expos: The Montreal Expos is the name of a Major League Baseball team that was located in Montreal, Quebec, Canada from 1969 until the end of the 2004 season, when the team was moved to Washington, D.C. and became the Washington Nationals. Named after the Expo 67 World's Fair, the Expos started play at Jarry Park under manager Gene Mauch. The team's initial majority owner was Charles Bronfman, a major shareholder in Seagram.
Metallocene: A metallocene is a compound with the general formula (C5H5)2M consisting of two cyclopentadienyl anions (Cp, which is C5H5) bound to a metal center (M) in the oxidation state II. Closely related to the metallocenes are the metallocene derivatives, e.g. titanocene dichloride, vanadocene dichloride. Certain metallocenes and their derivatives exhibit catalytic properties, although metallocenes are rarely used industrially.
Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg: Maria Eleonora of Brandenburg (11 November 1599 - 28 March 1655) was a German princess and queen consort of Sweden. She was the daughter of John Sigismund, Elector of Brandenburg and Anna, Duchess of Prussia, daughter of Albert Frederick, Duke of Prussia. In the year 1620 Maria Eleonora married, with her mother's consent but against her brother's will, the Swedish king Gustavus Adolphus. She bore a daughter, Christina, in 1626.
Marcus Aurelius: Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus (26 April 121 - 17 March 180) was Roman emperor from 161 to his death in 180. He ruled with Lucius Verus as co-emperor from 161 until Lucius' death in 169. He was the last of the "Five Good Emperors", and is also considered one of the most important Stoic philosophers. His tenure was marked by wars in Asia against a revitalized Parthian Empire, and with Germanic tribes along the Limes Germanicus into Gaul and across the Danube.
Maze: A maze is a complex tour puzzle in the form of a complex branching passage through which the solver must find a route. In everyday speech, both maze and labyrinth denote a complex and confusing series of pathways, but technically the maze is distinguished from the labyrinth. The labyrinth has a single through-route with twists and turns but without branches; it is not designed to be as difficult to navigate as a maze is . The pathways and walls in a maze or labyrinth are fixed (pre-determined).
Mexican cuisine: Mexican cuisine is a style of food that originates in Mexico. Mexican cuisine is known for its varied flavors, colorful decoration, and variety of spices and ingredients, many of which are native to the country.
Mammoth: A mammoth is any species of the extinct genus Mammuthus. These proboscideans are members of Elephantidae, the family of elephants and mammoths, and close relatives of modern elephants. They were often equipped with long curved tusks and, in northern species, a covering of long hair. They lived from the Pliocene epoch from around 4.8 million to 4,500 years ago. The word mammoth comes from the Russian mamont, probably in turn from the Vogul (Mansi) language, mang ont, meaning "earth horn".
Muon: The muon (from the Greek letter mu used to represent it) is an elementary particle similar to the electron, with a negative electric charge and a spin of 2. Together with the electron, the tauon, and the three neutrinos, it is classified as a lepton. It is the unstable subatomic particle with the second longest mean lifetime, behind the neutron.
Murder: Murder, as defined in common law countries, is the unlawful killing of another human being with intent, and generally this state of mind distinguishes murder from other forms of unlawful homicide.
MIPS architecture: MIPS (originally an acronym for Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages) is a reduced instruction set computer (RISC) instruction set architecture (ISA) developed by MIPS Computer Systems (now MIPS Technologies). The early MIPS architectures were 32-bit, and later versions were 64-bit. Multiple revisions of the MIPS instruction set exist, including MIPS I, MIPS II, MIPS III, MIPS IV, MIPS V, MIPS32, and MIPS64.
Mariner program: The Mariner program was a program conducted by the American space agency NASA that launched a series of robotic interplanetary probes designed to investigate Mars, Venus and Mercury. The program included a number of firsts, including the first planetary flyby, the first pictures from another planet, the first planetary orbiter, and the first gravity assist maneuver. Of the ten vehicles in the Mariner series, seven were successful and three were lost.
Musical ensemble: A musical ensemble is a group of two or more musicians who perform instrumental or vocal music. In each musical style different norms have developed for the sizes and composition of different ensembles, and for the repertoire of songs or musical works that these ensembles perform. In classical music, trios or quartets either blend the sounds of instrument families (e.g.
MOO programming language: The MOO programming language is a relatively simple programming language used to support the MOO Server. It is dynamically typed and uses a prototype based object oriented system, with syntax roughly derived from the Algol school of programming languages.
Mariner 4: Mariner 4 (together with Mariner 3 known as Mariner-Mars 1964) was the fourth in a series of spacecraft, launched on November 28, 1964, intended for planetary exploration in a flyby mode and performed the first successful flyby of the planet Mars, returning the first pictures of the Martian surface.
Motorcycle sport: Motorcycle sport is a broad field that encompasses all sporting aspects of motorcycling. The disciplines are not all "races" or timed-speed events, as several disciplines test a competitor's various riding skills.
Military of Afghanistan: The military of Afghanistan is composed of the Afghan National Army, the Afghan National Army Air Corps (formerly the Afghan Air Force), and the special ANA Commando Battalion force. Being a landlocked country, Afghanistan has no navy. The Afghan National Army currently has 108,000 (January 2010) soldiers with plans to reach 260,000 by 2014. The Afghan military existed since the early 1700s when the Hotaki dynasty rose to power followed by the Durrani Empire.
Matilda of Tuscany: Matilda of Tuscany, was an Italian noblewoman, the principal Italian supporter of Pope Gregory VII during the Investiture Controversy. She is one of the few medieval women to be remembered for her military accomplishments. She is sometimes called la Gran Contessa ("the Great Countess") or Matilda of Canossa after the her ancestral castle of Canossa.
Marina Tsvetaeva: Marina Ivanovna Tsvetaeva was a Russian and Soviet poet and writer.
Marienburg: The names Marienburg or Frauenburg were given to many towns in German-speaking countries in the Middle Ages. The names usually originated in the construction of a fortified (hence -burg) chapel, church, or monastery dedicated to the Virgin Mary, also descriptively called Frau (meaning, here, Lady, Our Lady). Ex. Marienburg Abbey:. There are many fortresses, castles, and towns with the name Marienburg. Marienburg may be:
Mesopotamia: Mesopotamia (from Greek " between the rivers", rendered in Arabic as bild al-rfidayn) is a toponym for the area of the Tigris-Euphrates river system, along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, largely corresponding to modern Iraq, as well as some parts of northeastern Syria, some parts of southeastern Turkey, and some parts of the Khzestn Province of southwestern Iran.
Miranda Richardson: Miranda Jane Richardson (born 3 March 1958) is an English stage, film and television actor. She has been nominated for two Academy Awards, and has won two Golden Globes (with seven nominations) and a BAFTA (with six nominations) during her career.
Mecklenburg: Mecklenburg is a region in northern Germany comprising the western and larger part of the federal state Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. The largest cities of the region are Rostock, Schwerin, and Neubrandenburg. The name Mecklenburg derives from a castle named "Mikilenburg", located between the cities of Schwerin and Wismar. It was the ancestral seat of the House of Mecklenburg and for a time divided into Mecklenburg-Schwerin and Mecklenburg-Strelitz among the same dynasty.
Musical notation: Music notation or musical notation is any system which represents aurally perceived music, through the use of written symbols.
Meir Kahane: Martin David Kahane also known as Meir Kahane was an American-Israeli rabbi and ultra-nationalist writer and political figure. He was an ordained Orthodox rabbi and later served as a member of the Israeli parliament or Knesset.
Marietta Alboni: Marietta Alboni (March 6, 1826 - June 23, 1894) was a renowned Italian contralto opera singer. With the exception of Maria Malibran, she was considered the greatest contralto of the nineteenth century. She was born at Citt di Castello, in Umbria. She became a pupil of Antonio Bagioli of Cesena Romagna, and later of Gioachino Rossini. She made her dut at the age of 15 at Bologna as Orsini in Lucrezia Borgia, and her success led to an engagement at La Scala, Milan.
Manatee: Manatees are large, fully aquatic, mostly herbivorous marine mammals sometimes known as sea cows. They are noted for their friendly nature, up to 4 meter size, and paddle-like flippers. The name manat comes from the Tano, a pre-Columbian people of the Caribbean, meaning "breast".
Marsupial: Marsupials are an infraclass of mammals, characterized by a distinctive pouch (called the marsupium), in which females carry their young through early infancy.
Margaret Murray: Margaret Alice Murray (July 13, 1863 - November 13, 1963) was a prominent British anthropologist and Egyptologist. She was well known in academic circles for scholarly contributions to Egyptology and the study of folklore which led to the theory of a pan-European, pre-Christian pagan religion that revolved around the Horned God. Her theories are acknowledged to have significantly influenced the emergence of Wicca and reconstructionist neopagan religions.
March 24: March 24 is the 365th and last day of the year in many European implementations of the Julian calendar.
Multiple-image Network Graphics: Multiple-image Network Graphics is a public graphics file format for animated images. MNG is closely related to the PNG image format. When PNG development started in early 1995, developers decided not to incorporate support for animation, not least because this feature of GIF was seldom used at the time. However, work soon started on MNG as an animation-supporting version of PNG. Version 1.0 of the MNG specification was released on January 31, 2001.
Manchester: Manchester is a city and metropolitan borough of Greater Manchester, England. In 2008, the population of the city was estimated to be 464,200, making it the seventh-most populous local authority district in England.
Mississippi John Hurt: Mississippi John Hurt (July 3, 1893 or March 8, 1892 - November 2, 1966) was an influential country blues singer and guitarist. He sang in a loud whisper, to a melodious finger-picked guitar accompaniment.
Aoraki/Mount Cook: Aoraki/Mount Cook is the highest mountain in New Zealand, reaching a height of 3,754 metres (12,316 ft). it is also a favourite challenge for mountain climbers. Aoraki/Mount Cook consists of three summits lying slightly south and east of the main divide, the Low Peak, Middle Peak and High Peak, with the Tasman Glacier to the east and the Hooker Glacier to the west.
Murray Rothbard: Murray Newton Rothbard (March 2, 1926 - January 7, 1995) was an American intellectual, individualist anarchist, author, and economist of the Austrian School who helped define modern libertarianism and popularized a form of free-market anarchism he termed "anarcho-capitalism". Rothbard wrote over twenty books.
Mel Brooks: Melvin "Mel" Kaminsky (born June 28, 1926), better known by his stage name Mel Brooks, is an American film director, screenwriter, composer, lyricist, comedian, actor, and producer. He is best known as a creator of broad film farces and comic parodies. Brooks is a member of the short list of entertainers with the distinction of having won an Emmy, a Grammy, an Oscar, and a Tony award.
Mycoplasma genitalium: Mycoplasma genitalium is a small parasitic bacterium which lives on the ciliated epithelial cells of the primate genital and respiratory tracts. M. genitalium is the smallest known free-living bacterium, and the second-smallest bacterium after the recently-discovered endosymbiont Carsonella ruddii. Until the discovery of Nanoarchaeum in 2002, M. genitalium was also considered to be the organism with the smallest genome.
Mehmet Ali A ca: Mehmet Ali Aca (pronounced "aa - jah")(born January 9, 1958) is a Turkish assassin who shot and wounded Pope John Paul II on May 13, 1981. After serving 19 years of incarceration in Italy, he was deported to Turkey, where he served another sentence for the murder of Abdi pek, a left-wing journalist, in 1979. He was released on January 18, 2010.
Mummy: A mummy is a corpse whose skin and organs have been preserved by either intentional or incidental exposure to chemicals, extreme coldness, very low humidity, or lack of air when bodies are submerged in bogs. Presently, the oldest discovered (naturally) mummified human corpse was a decapitated head dated as 6,000 years old and was found in 1936. The earliest known Egyptian "mummified" individual dates back to approximately 3300 BC.
Mozilla: Mozilla is a term used in a number of ways in relation to the now-defunct Netscape Communications Corporation and its related application software, including the Mozilla. org group and its successor the Mozilla Foundation. Only three things have ever formally used the term Mozilla alone: The codename for the Netscape Navigator software project The official, public, original name of the Mozilla Application Suite, currently known as SeaMonkey The Mascot of Netscape.
Melilla: Melilla is an autonomous Spanish city located on the Mediterranean, on the north coast of North Africa. It was regarded as a part of Maga province prior to 14 March 1995, when the city's Statute of Autonomy was passed. Melilla was a free port before Spain joined the European Union. As of 2008 it has a population of 71,448. Its population consists of Christians, Muslims, and small minorities of Jews. Spanish, Tarifit-Berber and Haketia are widely spoken.
Moravia: Moravia is an historical region in Central Europe in the east of the Czech Republic, one of the former Czech lands. It takes its name from the Morava River which rises in the northwest of the region.
Macaroni: Macaroni is a kind of moderately extended, machine-made dry pasta. Much shorter than spaghetti (but not necessarily), and hollow, macaroni does not contain eggs. Though home machines exist that can make macaroni noodles, macaroni is usually made commercially. Macaroni is a borrowing of the Italian maccheroni (plural of maccherone). Its etymology is debatable. Some scholars consider it related to Greek (makaria), a kind of barley broth.
Messenger RNA: Messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) is a molecule of RNA encoding a chemical "blueprint" for a protein product. mRNA is transcribed from a DNA template, and carries coding information to the sites of protein synthesis: the ribosomes. Here, the nucleic acid polymer is translated into a polymer of amino acids: a protein. In mRNA as in DNA, genetic information is encoded in the sequence of nucleotides arranged into codons consisting of three bases each.
Mount Saint Vincent University: Mount Saint Vincent University is a university located in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. It is 135 years old and locally referred to as The Mount.
Minimal pair: In phonology, minimal pairs are pairs of words or phrases in a particular language, which differ in only one phonological element, such as a phone, phoneme, toneme or chroneme and have a distinct meaning. They are used to demonstrate that two phones constitute two separate phonemes in the language. As an example for English vowels, the pair "let" + "lit" can be used to demonstrate that the phones [] (in let) and [] (in lit) do in fact represent distinct phonemes // and //.
Minestrone: Minestrone is the name for a variety of thick Italian soups made with vegetables, often with the addition of pasta or rice. Common ingredients include beans, onions, celery, carrots, stock, and tomatoes. There is no set recipe for minestrone, since it is usually made out of whatever vegetables are in season. It can be vegetarian, contain meat, or contain a meat-based broth. Minestrone is one of the cornerstones of Italian cuisine, and is just about as common as pasta on Italian tables.
Mars in fiction: Fictional representations of Mars have been popular for over a century. Interest in Mars has been stimulated by the planet's dramatic red color, by early scientific speculations that its surface conditions might be capable of supporting life, and by the possibility that Mars could be colonized by humans in the future. Almost as popular as stories about Mars are stories about Martians engaging in activity (frequently invasions) away from their home planet.
Miranda moon: Miranda is the smallest and innermost of Uranus' five major moons. It was discovered by Gerard Kuiper on February 16, 1948 at McDonald Observatory. It was named after Miranda from William Shakespeare's play The Tempest by Kuiper in his report of the discovery. The adjectival form of the name is Mirandan. It is also designated Uranus V. So far the only close-up images of Miranda are from the Voyager 2 probe, which made observations of the moon during its Uranus flyby in January, 1986.
McIntosh apple: The McIntosh Red (or McIntosh, colloquially "Mac") is an apple cultivar with red and green skin, a tart flavor, and tender white flesh. It becomes ripe in late September. It is traditionally the most popular cultivar in Eastern Canada and New England, well known for the pink sauce unpeeled McIntoshes make. It is a superior eating apple and well suited for applesauce, cider, and pies.
Mushroom: A mushroom is the fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus, typically produced above ground on soil or on its food source. The standard for the name "mushroom" is the cultivated white button mushroom, Agaricus bisporus, hence the word mushroom is most often applied to those fungi that have a stem, a cap, and gills on the underside of the cap, just as do store-bought white mushrooms.
Mainframe computer: Mainframes are powerful computers used mainly by large organizations for critical applications, typically bulk data processing such as census, industry and consumer statistics, enterprise resource planning, and financial transaction processing. The term originally referred to the large cabinets that housed the central processing unit and main memory of early computers. Later the term was used to distinguish high-end commercial machines from less powerful units.
Michael Hutchence: Michael Kelland John Hutchence (22 January 1960 - 22 November 1997) was an Australian singer-songwriter, most famous for his work with rock band INXS.
Microsoft Excel: Microsoft Excel (full name Microsoft Office Excel) is a spreadsheet application written and distributed by Microsoft for Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X. It features calculation, graphing tools, pivot tables and a macro programming language called VBA. It has been the most widely used spreadsheet application available for these platforms since version 5 in 1993. Excel forms part of Microsoft Office.
Motorola 68000: The Motorola 68000 is a 16/32-bit CISC microprocessor core designed and marketed by Freescale Semiconductor (formerly Motorola Semiconductor Products Sector). Introduced in 1979 with HMOS technology as the first member of the successful 32-bit m68k family of microprocessors, it is generally software forward compatible with the rest of the line despite being limited to a 16-bit wide external bus. After three decades in production, the 68000 architecture is still in use.
Minicomputer: A minicomputer (colloquially, mini) is a class of multi-user computers that lies in the middle range of the computing spectrum, in between the largest multi-user systems and the smallest single-user systems. The class at one time formed a distinct group with its own hardware and operating systems, but the contemporary term for this class of system is midrange computer, such as the higher-end SPARC, POWER and Itanium -based systems from Sun Microsystems, IBM and Hewlett-Packard.
Machete: The machete is a large cleaver-like cutting tool. The blade is typically 32.5 to 60 centimetres (12.8 to 23.6 in) long and usually under 3 millimetres (0.12 in) thick. In the English language, an equivalent term is matchet, though the name 'machete' is more commonly known. In the English-speaking Caribbean such as Grenada and in Trinidad and Tobago, the term "cutlass" is used for these agricultural tools.
Mechanized infantry: Mechanized infantry are infantry equipped with armored personnel carriers (APCs), or infantry fighting vehicles (IFVs) for transport and combat. Mechanized infantry is distinguished from motorized infantry, which is transported to battle by trucks or motor vehicles, in that their vehicles provide a degree of protection from hostile fire, as opposed to "soft-skinned" wheeled vehicles (trucks or jeeps).
Martin Fowler: Martin Fowler is an author and international speaker on software development, specializing in object-oriented analysis and design, UML, patterns, and agile software development methodologies, including extreme programming. Martin Fowler started working with software in the early 80's and has written five books on the topic of software development. In March 2000, he became Chief Scientist at ThoughtWorks, a systems integration and consulting company.
Microsoft Word: Microsoft Word is a word processor designed by Microsoft. It was first released in 1983 under the name Multi-Tool Word for Xenix systems. Subsequent versions were later written for several other platforms including IBM PCs running DOS (1983), the Apple Macintosh (1984), the AT&T Unix PC (1985), Atari ST (1986), SCO UNIX, OS/2, and Microsoft Windows (1989).
Malachi: Malachi, Malachias or Mal'achi was a prophet in the Bible, the Jewish Tanakh and Christian Old Testament . He was the last of the minor prophets of David, and the writer of the Book of Malachi, the last book of the Christian edition Old Testament canon, and is the last book of the Neviim (prophets) section in the Jewish Tanakh. No allusion is made to him by Ezra, however, and he does not directly mention the restoration of the temple.
Micah: Micah is a given name. Micah is the name of several people in the Hebrew Bible, and means "who is like God?", in the sense that God is unique. The name is sometimes found with theophoric extensions. Suffix theophory in Yah and in Yahweh results in Michaiah or Michaihu, meaning who is like Yahweh? Suffix theophory in El results in Michael, meaning who is like God?, or possibly one who is like God.
Mohammad Najibullah: Najibullah, originally just Najib, (August 6, 1947 - September 27, 1996) was the fourth and last President of the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan. He is also considered the second President of the Republic of Afghanistan.
Microsoft Office: Microsoft Office is an office suite of interrelated desktop applications, servers and services for the Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X operating systems. Microsoft Office was introduced by Microsoft in 1989 for Macintosh, with a version for Windows in 1990. Initially a marketing term for a bundled set of applications, the first version of Office contained Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, and Microsoft PowerPoint.
Multiplan: Multiplan was an early spreadsheet program developed by Microsoft. Known initially by the code name "EP" (for "Electronic Paper"), it was introduced in 1982 as a competitor for VisiCalc.
MOS Technology 6501: The 6501 is an eight-bit microprocessor, the first sold by MOS Technology. The 6501 is the first member of the 65xx series of microprocessors. It was the first microprocessor to be sold for 25 US$ in unit quantities. It was created by several ex-members of Motorola's design team and was pin-compatible with the Motorola 6800 microprocessor. It was not software-compatible, offering several addressing modes not available on the 6800.
MultiMate: MultiMate was a word processor developed by Softword Systems Inc. (later renamed Multimate International) for IBM PC MS-DOS computers in the early 1980s. Wilton H. Jones, a programmer turned entrepreneur (W.H. Jones & Associates), brought on board ten young programmers to write the software after winning a contract to develop a word processor for the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance company. He negotiated the right to sell the program elsewhere.
MOS Technology 6502: The MOS Technology 6502 is an 8-bit microprocessor that was designed by Chuck Peddle and Bill Mensch for MOS Technology in 1975. When it was introduced, it was the least expensive full-featured microprocessor on the market by a considerable margin, costing less than one-sixth the price of competing designs from larger companies such as Motorola and Intel.
Mahayana: Mahayana is one of the two main existing branches of Buddhism and a term for classification of Buddhist philosophies and practice. It was founded in India. The name Mahayana is used in three main senses: As a living tradition, Mahayana is the larger of the two major traditions of Buddhism existing today, the other being Theravada. This classification is largely undisputed by all Buddhist schools.
MOS Technology 6510: The MOS Technology 6510 is a microprocessor designed by MOS Technology, Inc. , and is a modified form of the very successful 6502. The primary change from the 6502 was the addition of an 8-bit general purpose I/O port (only six I/O pins were available in the most common version of the 6510). In addition, the address bus could be made tristate. The 6510 was only widely used in the Commodore 64 home computer (and in significantly smaller numbers in the C64's portable version, the SX-64).
Motorola 68020: The Motorola 68020 is a 32-bit microprocessor from Motorola, released in 1984. It is the successor to the Motorola 68010 and is succeeded by the Motorola 68030.
MOS Technology 65xx: MOS Technology 65xx is a family of 8-bit microprocessors from MOS Technology, based on the Motorola 6800. The 65xx family most notably included the 6502, used in several home computers such as the Commodore PET and VIC-20, the Apple II, and the Atari 800. One popular 6502 based computer, the Commodore 64, used a modified 6502 CPU, the 6510. A European computer which used the 6502 was the BBC Micro, manufactured by Acorn, Ltd.
Motorola 6800: The 6800 is an 8-bit microprocessor produced by Motorola and released shortly after the Intel 8080 in late 1974. It had 78 instructions, including the (in)famous, undocumented Halt and Catch Fire (HCF) bus test instruction. It may have been the first microprocessor with an index register. It was usually packaged in a 40 pin DIP (dual-inline package).
The Muppets: The Muppets are a group of puppet characters created by Jim Henson. Individually, a Muppet is one of the puppets made by Jim Henson or his company's workshop. Although the term is often used to refer to any puppet that resembles the distinctive style of The Muppet Show the term is both an informal name and legal trademark linked to the characters created by Henson.
Mole fraction: In chemistry, mole fraction x is a way of expressing the composition of a mixture. The mole fraction of each component i is defined as its amount of substance ni divided by the total amount of substance in the system, n where The sum is over all components, including the solvent in the case of a chemical solution. As an example, if a mixture is obtained by dissolving 10 moles of sucrose in 90 moles of water, the mole fraction of sucrose in that mixture is 0.1.
Military academy: A military academy or service academy is an educational institution which prepares candidates for service in the officer corps of the Army, the Navy, Air Force or Coast Guard or provides education in a service environment, the exact definition depending on the country concerned.
Mary Cassatt: Mary Stevenson Cassatt (May 22, 1844 - June 14, 1926) was an American painter and printmaker. She lived much of her adult life in France, where she first befriended Edgar Degas and later exhibited among the Impressionists. Cassatt often created images of the social and private lives of women, with particular emphasis on the intimate bonds between mothers and children.
Hayao Miyazaki: Hayao Miyazaki ( , Miyazaki Hayao, born January 5, 1941) is a prominent Japanese filmmaker of many popular animated feature films. He is also a co-founder of Studio Ghibli, an animation studio and production company. He remained largely unknown to the West, until Miramax released his 1997 Princess Mononoke. By that time, his films had already enjoyed both commercial and critical success in Japan.
Mazda MX-5: The Mazda MX-5, also known as Miata in North America and Roadster in Japan, is a two-seater roadster built by Mazda in Hiroshima, Japan. The model was introduced in 1989 and is now in its third generation.
Macrobiotic diet: A macrobiotic diet (or macrobiotics), from the Greek "macro" (large, long) and "bios" (life), is a dietary regimen that involves eating grains as a staple food supplemented with other foodstuffs such as vegetables and beans, and avoiding the use of highly processed or refined foods. Macrobiotics also addresses the manner of eating by recommending against overeating and requiring that food be chewed thoroughly before swallowing.
Motorola: Motorola, Inc. is an American, multinational, Fortune 100, telecommunications company based in Schaumburg, Illinois. It is a manufacturer of wireless telephone handsets, and also designs and sells wireless network infrastructure equipment such as cellular transmission base stations and signal amplifiers.
Mackinac Bridge: The Mackinac Bridge (approximately mack-in-awe), is a suspension bridge spanning the Straits of Mackinac to connect the non-contiguous Upper and Lower peninsulas of the U.S. state of Michigan. Envisioned since the 1880s, the bridge was completed only after many decades of struggles to begin construction. Designed by engineer David B. Steinman, the bridge (familiarly known as "Big Mac" and "Mighty Mac") connects the city of St.
Motorola 68060: The Motorola 68060 is a 32-bit microprocessor from Motorola released in 1994. It is the successor to the Motorola 68040 and is the highest performing member of the 680x0 family.
Motorola 6809: The Motorola 6809 is an 8-bit (with some 16-bit features) microprocessor CPU from Motorola, introduced circa 1977-78. It was a major advance over both its predecessor, the Motorola 6800, and the related MOS Technology 6502.
Motorola 68030: The Motorola 68030 is a 32-bit microprocessor in Motorola's 68000 family. Released in 1987, the 68030 was the successor to the Motorola 68020, and was followed by the Motorola 68040. In keeping with general Motorola naming, this CPU is often referred to as the 030 (pronounced oh-thirty). The 68030 features an on-chip split instruction and data cache of 256 bytes each. It also has an on-chip memory management unit.
March 21: Common date of the March equinox (although astronomically the equinox is more likely to fall on March 20 in all but the most easterly latitudes). In astrology, the day of the equinox is the first full day of the sign of Aries. It is also the traditional first day of the astrological year.
Mainframe: Mainframe may refer to one of the following: Mainframe computer, large data processing systems Mainframe Entertainment, a Canadian computer animation and design company. Mainframe is the city that the CGI cartoon ReBoot takes place in.
Freescale 68HC11: The 68HC11 (6811 or HC11 for short) is a 8-bit microcontroller () family originally from Motorola, now produced by Freescale Semiconductor, descended from the Motorola 6800 microprocessor. It is a CISC microcontroller. The 68HC11 devices are more powerful and more expensive than the 68HC08 microcontrollers, and are used in barcode readers, hotel card key writers, amateur robotics, and various other embedded systems.
Motorola 68040: The Motorola 68040 is a microprocessor from Motorola, released in 1990. It is the successor to the 68030 and is followed by the 68060, 68050 product having been skipped. In keeping with general Motorola naming, the 68040 is often referred to as simply the '040 (pronounced oh-forty). In Apple Macintosh computers, the 68040 was found mainly in the high-end Macintosh Quadra. The fastest 68040 processor was clocked at 40 MHz and it was only used in the Quadra 840AV.
Merovingian dynasty: The Merovingians (also Merovings) were a Salian Frankish dynasty that came to rule the Franks in a region largely corresponding to ancient Gaul from the middle of the fifth century. Their politics involved frequent civil warfare among branches of the family. During the final century of the Merovingian rule, the dynasty was increasingly pushed into a ceremonial role. The Merovingian rule was ended in 751 when Pepin the Short formally deposed Childeric III, beginning the Carolingian monarchy.
The Morr gan: The Morrgan ("terror" or "phantom queen") or Mrgan ("great queen") (also known as Morrgu, Morrghan, Mor-Roghain, sometimes given in the plural as Morrgna) is a figure from Irish mythology who appears to have once been a goddess, although she is not explicitly referred to as such in the texts. She is associated with sovereignty, prophecy, war, and death on the battlefield.
Mary programming language: Mary was a programming language designed and implemented by RUNIT at Trondheim, Norway in the 1970s. It borrowed many features from ALGOL 68 but was designed for machine-oriented programming. An unusual feature of its syntax was that expressions were constructed using the conventional infix operators, but all of them had the same precedence and evaluation went from left to right unless there were brackets.
Marquette Michigan: Marquette is a city in the U.S. state of Michigan and the county seat of Marquette County. The population was 19,661 at the 2000 census, making it the most populated city of the Upper Peninsula. Marquette is a major port on Lake Superior, primarily for shipping iron ore and is the home of Northern Michigan University. The city of Marquette averages about 144 inches of snow per year, making it the third snowiest city in the contiguous United States among those cities large enough to be reported.
Mountaineering: Mountaineering is the sport, hobby or profession of walking, hiking, backpacking and climbing mountains. In Europe it is also referred to as alpinism, while in the Americas the term refers to a particular style of mountain climbing, that involves a mixture of ice climbing, rock climbing, mixed climbing, and where the climbers carry all their loads with them at all times. In the Himalayan regions the style of mountaineering is Expedition.
Megara: Megara is an ancient city (pop. 23,032 in 2001) in Attica, Greece. It lies in the northern section of the Isthmus of Corinth opposite the island of Salamis, which belonged to Megara in archaic times, before being taken by Athens. Megara was one of the four districts of Attica, embodied in the four mythic sons of King Pandion II, of whom Nisos was the ruler of Megara. Megara was also a trade port, its people using their ships and wealth as a way to gain leverage on armies of neighboring polises.
Martin of Tours: Saint Martin of Tours, (Savaria, Pannonia, 316 - November 8, 397 in Candes-Saint-Martin, Gaul; buried November 11, 397, Candes, Gaul) was a Bishop of Tours whose shrine became a famous stopping-point for pilgrims on the road to Santiago de Compostela. Around his name much legendary material accrued and he has become one of the most familiar and recognizable Christian saints. He is considered a spiritual bridge across Europe, given his association with both France and Hungary.
Meaning of life: The meaning of life constitutes a philosophical question concerning the purpose and significance of life or existence in general. This concept can be expressed through a variety of related questions, such as Why are we here?, What is life all about?, and What is the meaning of it all? It has been the subject of much philosophical, scientific, and theological speculation throughout history.
Margaret River Western Australia: Margaret River is a town in the South West of Western Australia, located in the valley of the eponymous Margaret River, 277 kilometres (172 mi) south of Perth, the state capital. Its Local Government Area is the Shire of Augusta-Margaret River. The surrounding area is the Margaret River Wine Region and has become known for its wine production and tourism, attracting an estimated 500,000 visitors annually. In earlier days the area was better known for hardwood timber and agricultural production.
Month: The month is a unit of time, used with calendars, which was first used and invented in Egypt,as some natural period related to the motion of the Moon; month and Moon are cognates. The traditional concept arose with the cycle of moon phases; such months are synodic months and last approximately 29.53 days. From excavated tally sticks, researchers have deduced that people counted days in relation to the Moon's phases as early as the Paleolithic age.
Metrication: Metrication refers to the introduction and use of the SI metric system, the international standard for physical measurements. This has involved a long process of independent and systematic conversions of countries from various local systems of weights and measures. Metrication began in France in the 1790s and spread widely during the following two centuries. The process is sometimes called metrification.
Maginot Line: The Maginot Line, named after French Minister of Defense Andr Maginot, was a line of concrete fortifications, tank obstacles, artillery casemates, machine gun posts, and other defenses, which France constructed along its borders with Germany and Italy, in the light of experience from World War I, and in the run-up to World War II. Generally the term describes only the defenses facing Germany, while the term Alpine Line is used for the Franco-Italian defenses.
Mozambique Channel: The Mozambique Channel is a portion of the Indian Ocean located between the island of Madagascar and southeast Africa, primarily the country of Mozambique. It was a World War II clashpoint during the Battle of Madagascar. The channel is approximately 460 kilometers across at its narrowest point between Angoche, Mozambique, and Tambohorano, Madagascar. The channel reaches a depth of 3,292 meters (10,800 feet) about 230 kilometers off the coast of Mozambique.
Mutagen: In biology, a mutagen (Latin, literally origin of change) is a physical or chemical agent that changes the genetic material, usually DNA, of an organism and thus increases the frequency of mutations above the natural background level. As many mutations cause cancer, mutagens are typically also carcinogens. Not all mutations are caused by mutagens: so-called "spontaneous mutations" occur due to errors in DNA replication, repair and recombination.
Music lesson: Music lessons are a type of formal instruction in playing a musical instrument or singing. Typically, a student taking music lessons meets a music teacher for one-on-one training sessions ranging from 30 minutes to one hour in length over a period of weeks or years. For vocal lessons, teachers show students how to sit or stand and breathe, and how to position the head, chest, and mouth for good vocal tone.
Medical psychology: Medical Psychology refers to a growing specialty area of clinical psychological practice in which clinical psychologists, who have undergone specialized education and training at the post-doctoral level, integrate somatic and psychotherapeutic modalities into the management of mental illness, including the prescription of medications in the care and management of patients. In the United States, New Mexico and Louisiana, and several branches of the U.S.
Mychal Judge: Mychal F. Judge, OFM (born Robert Emmet Judge on May 11, 1933; died September 11, 2001) was a Roman Catholic priest of the Franciscan Order of Friars Minor, Chaplain of the Fire Department of New York, and the first recorded victim of the September 11, 2001 attacks.
Moonfleet: Moonfleet is a tale of smuggling by the English novelist J. Meade Falkner, first published in 1898. The book was extremely popular among children worldwide up until the 1970s, mostly for its themes of adventure and gripping storyline. It remains a popular story widely read and is still sometimes studied in schools.
ML: ml may stand for: millilitre (also spelled milliliter; symbol mL, ml, or m), a thousandth of a litre (an SI unit of capacity) Malayalam language (ISO 639-1 code ml) . ml, the top-level Internet domain for Mali ML may stand for: Major League Baseball, usually abbreviated "MLB", but sometimes simply "ML" some models of the Mercedes-Benz M-Class (e.g.
Merge algorithm: Merge algorithms are a family of algorithms that run sequentially over multiple sorted lists, typically producing more sorted lists as output. This is well-suited for machines with tape drives. Use has declined due to large random access memories, and many applications of merge algorithms have faster alternatives when a random-access memory is available. The general merge algorithm has a set of pointers p0.. n that point to positions in a set of lists L0..n.
List of topics in mathematics: Mathematics is the search for fundamental truths in pattern, quantity, and change. For more on the relationship between mathematics and science, refer to the article on science. The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to mathematics:
Cuisine of the Midwestern United States: Midwestern cuisine is a regional cuisine of the American Midwest. It draws its culinary roots most significantly from the cuisines of Central, Northern and Eastern Europe. Everyday Midwestern home cooking generally showcases simple and hearty dishes that make use of the abundance of locally grown foods. Its culinary profiles may seem synonymous with "American food.
Moor: Moor may refer to:
Medieval Inquisition: The Medieval Inquisition is a series of Inquisitions from around 1184, including the Episcopal Inquisition (1184-1230s) and later the Papal Inquisition (1230s). It was in response to large popular movements throughout Europe considered apostate or heretical to Christianity, in particular Catharism and Waldensians in southern France and northern Italy. These were the first inquisition movements of many that would follow.
Mitosis: Mitosis is the process by which a eukaryotic cell separates the chromosomes in its cell nucleus into two identical sets in two nuclei. It is generally followed immediately by cytokinesis, which divides the nuclei, cytoplasm, organelles and cell membrane into two cells containing roughly equal shares of these cellular components.
Metabolism: Metabolism is the set of chemical reactions that happen in living organisms to maintain life. These processes allow organisms to grow and reproduce, maintain their structures, and respond to their environments. Metabolism is usually divided into two categories. Catabolism breaks down organic matter, for example to harvest energy in cellular respiration. Anabolism uses energy to construct components of cells such as proteins and nucleic acids.
Microorganism: A microorganism or microbe is an organism that is microscopic (usually too small to be seen by the naked human eye). The study of microorganisms is called microbiology, a subject that began with Anton van Leeuwenhoek's discovery of microorganisms in 1675, using a microscope of his own design. Microorganisms are very diverse; they include bacteria, fungi, archaea, and protists; microscopic plants; and animals such as plankton and the planarian.
Micronation: Micronations - sometimes also referred to as model countries and new country projects - are entities that claim to be independent nations or states but which are unrecognized by world governments or major international organizations. These nations often exist only on paper, on the Internet, or in the minds of their creators.
Geography of Burma: The Union of Myanmar is a country located on the mainland of southeast Asia, and would be the northwestern most entity of the region.
Mining: Mining is the extraction of valuable minerals or other geological materials from the earth, usually from an ore body, vein or seam. Materials recovered by mining include base metals, precious metals, iron, uranium, coal, diamonds, limestone, oil shale, rock salt and potash. Any material that cannot be grown through agricultural processes, or created artificially in a laboratory or factory, is usually mined. Mining in a wider sense comprises extraction of any non-renewable resource.
Politics of Burma: The government of Burma (the country is also known as Myanmar) is controlled by the military in the form of the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC). A parliamentary government was elected in 1990, but the military prevented it from convening.
Demographics of Burma: The following is an overview of the demographics of Burma, including statistics such as population and religious affiliation. At the time of the last official census in Burma, 31 March 1983, the population was 35,442,972. As of July 2003, this was estimated by the CIA World Factbook to have increased to 47,758,180; however, many other estimates put this much higher, at around 50-60 million. Britain based human rights agencies place the population as high as 70 million.
Transport in Burma: This details Transportation in Burma.
Economy of Burma: Burma is one of the poorest nations in the world, suffering from decades of stagnation, mismanagement, and isolation. Burmas GDP grows at an average rate of 2.9% annually - the lowest rate of economic growth in the Greater Mekong Subregion. Under British administration, Burma had been the wealthiest country in Southeast Asia. It was also once the world's largest exporter of rice. During British administration, Burma supplied oil through the Burmah Oil Company.
Foreign relations of Burma: Burma's foreign relations with many states (particularly Western nations) are strained, mainly due to its human rights record. However, it generally shares closer connections with some of its neighbor states. Burma (also known as Myanmar) remains a pariah state. The Burmese government continues to adopt an independent, non-aligned foreign policy.
Myanmar Armed Forces: The military of Myanmar, officially known as Tatmadaw is the military organization of Myanmar, also known as Burma. The armed forces are administered by the Ministry of Defence and are composed of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force. Auxiliary services include Myanmar Police Force, People Militia Units and Frontier Forces, locally known as Na Sa Kha.
Medicine man: "Medicine man" or "Medicine woman" are English terms used to describe Native American healers and spiritual figures. Anthropologists tend to prefer the term "shaman."
Michael Schumacher: Michael Schumacher (born 3 January 1969) is a seven-time Formula One World Drivers' Champion, currently driving for Mercedes GP. According to the official Formula One website he is "statistically the greatest driver the sport has ever seen"; he holds many of the formula's driver records, including most championships, race victories, fastest laps, pole positions, points scored and most races won in a single season - 2004.
Malay Peninsula: The Malay Peninsula or Thai-Malay Peninsula is in Southeast Asia. The land mass runs approximately north-south and, at its teminus, is the southern-most point of the Asian mainland. The area contains territories of Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand. The Titiwangsa Mountains is part of the Tenasserim Hills system, and forms the backbone of the Peninsula.
Multicast: Multicast addressing is a network technology for the delivery of information to a group of destinations simultaneously using the most efficient strategy to deliver the messages over each link of the network only once, creating copies only when the links to the multiple destinations split. The word "multicast" is typically used to refer to IP multicast which is often employed for streaming media and Internet television applications.
Miles Davis: Miles Dewey Davis III (May 26, 1926 - September 28, 1991) was an American jazz trumpeter, bandleader, and composer. Widely considered one of the most influential musicians of the 20th century, Miles Davis was, with his musical groups, at the forefront of several major developments in jazz music, including cool jazz, hard bop, modal jazz, and jazz fusion.
M-theory: In theoretical physics, M-theory is an extension of string theory in which 11 dimensions are identified. Because the dimensionality exceeds the dimensionality of five superstring theories in 10 dimensions, it is believed that the 11-dimensional theory unites all string theories (and supersedes them). Though a full description of the theory is not yet known, the low-entropy dynamics are known to be supergravity interacting with 2- and 5-dimensional membranes.
Marie Curie: Marie Skodowska Curie (7 November 1867 - 4 July 1934) was a physicist and chemist of Polish upbringing and, subsequently, French citizenship. She was a pioneer in the field of radioactivity, the first person honored with two Nobel Prizes, receiving one in physics and later, one in chemistry. She was the first woman to serve as professor at the University of Paris. She was born Maria Skodowska in Warsaw and lived there until she was twenty-four years old.
MATLAB: MATLAB is a numerical computing environment and fourth-generation programming language. Developed by The MathWorks, MATLAB allows matrix manipulations, plotting of functions and data, implementation of algorithms, creation of user interfaces, and interfacing with programs written in other languages, including C, C++, and Fortran. Although MATLAB is numeric only, an optional toolbox uses the MuPAD symbolic engine, allowing access to computer algebra capabilities.
Muonium: Muonium particles are exotic atoms made up of an antimuon and an electron, and are given the chemical symbol Mu. During the muon's 2 lifetime, muonium can enter into compounds such as muonium chloride (MuCl) or sodium muonide (NaMu). Due to the mass difference between the antimuon and the electron, muonium is more similar to atomic hydrogen than positronium. Its Bohr radius and ionization energy are within 0.5% of hydrogen, deuterium, and tritium.
Michael Bentine: Michael Bentine CBE (26 January 1922 - 26 November 1996) was a comedian, comic actor, and founding member of The Goons.
Mania: Mania (from Greek from - mainomai, "to rage, to be furious") is a state of abnormally elevated or irritable mood, arousal, and/ or energy levels, which is a criterion for certain psychiatric diagnoses. There are several possible causes for mania outside of mood disorders, including drug abuse and brain tumors, but it is most often associated with bipolar disorder, where episodes of mania alternate with episodes of major depression.
Meuse river: The Meuse (in Dutch and in German: Maas, in Latin: "Mosa", in Celtic:"Mus" (the rootword, presumably related to: "Mae+ic", is a major European river, rising in France and flowing through Belgium and the Netherlands before draining into the North Sea. It has a total length of 925 km .
Multimedia: Multimedia is media and content that uses a combination of different content forms. The term can be used as a noun (a medium with multiple content forms) or as an adjective describing a medium as having multiple content forms. The term is used in contrast to media which only use traditional forms of printed or hand-produced material. Multimedia includes a combination of text, audio, still images, animation, video, and interactivity content forms.
Lunar phase: A lunar phase or phase of the moon refers to the appearance of the illuminated portion of the Moon as seen by an observer, usually on Earth. The lunar phases vary cyclically as the Moon orbits the Earth, according to the changing relative positions of the Earth, Moon and Sun. One half of the lunar surface is always illuminated by the Sun, and hence is bright, but the portion of the illuminated hemisphere that is visible to an observer can vary from 100% to 0%.
Max Headroom TV series: Max Headroom (1987-1988) is a short-lived but ground-breaking American science fiction television series which aired on Cinemax, then on ABC. The series was developed from a British television movie, 20 Minutes into the Future, that was developed to provide background for the character, originally developed for Channel 4's The Max Headroom Show in 1985-1986. The Original Max Talking Headroom Show came out in 1987 on Cinemax.
Metonic cycle: The Metonic cycle or Enneadecaeteris in astronomy and calendar studies is a particular approximate common multiple of the tropical year and the synodic (lunar) month. The Greek astronomer Meton of Athens observed that a period of 19 tropical years is almost exactly equal to 235 synodic months, and rounded to full days counts 6940 days. The difference between the two periods (of 19 tropical years and 235 synodic months) is only 2 hours.
Malaria: Malaria is a mosquito-borne infectious disease caused by a eukaryotic protist of the genus Plasmodium. It is widespread in tropical and subtropical regions, including parts of the Americas, Asia, and Africa. Each year, there are approximately 350-500 million cases of malaria, killing between one and three million people, the majority of whom are young children in sub-Saharan Africa. Ninety percent of malaria-related deaths occur in sub-Saharan Africa.
Marcello Malpighi: Marcello Malpighi (March 10, 1628 - September 30, 1694) was an Italian doctor, who gave his name to several physiological features.
Momentum: In classical mechanics, momentum is the product of the mass and velocity of an object (p = mv). In relativistic mechanics, this quantity is multiplied by the Lorentz factor. Momentum is sometimes referred to as linear momentum to distinguish it from the related subject of angular momentum. Linear momentum is a vector quantity, since it has a direction as well as a magnitude. Angular momentum is a pseudovector quantity because it gains an additional sign flip under an improper rotation.
Mood stabilizer: A mood stabilizer is a psychiatric medication used to treat mood disorders characterized by intense and sustained mood shifts.
Mere Christianity: Mere Christianity is a theological book by C. S. Lewis, adapted from a series of BBC radio talks made between 1941 and 1944, while Lewis was at Oxford during World War II. Considered a classic of Christian apologetics, the transcripts of the broadcasts originally appeared in print as three separate pamphlets: The Case for Christianity (1942), Christian Behaviour (1942), and Beyond Personality (1944). Lewis was invited to give the talks by Rev.
MIDI timecode: MIDI time code (MTC) embeds the same timing information as standard SMPTE time code as a series of small 'quarter-frame' MIDI messages. There is no provision for the user bits in the standard MIDI time code messages, and SysEx messages are used to carry this information instead. The quarter-frame messages are transmitted in a sequence of eight messages, thus a complete timecode value is specified every two frames.
Mass transfer: Mass transfer is the transfer of mass from high concentration to low concentration. The phrase is commonly used in engineering for physical processes that involve molecular and convective transport of atoms and molecules within physical systems. Mass transfer includes both fluid flow and separation unit operations.
Martin Gardner: Martin Gardner (born October 21, 1914, Tulsa, Oklahoma) is an American mathematics and science writer specializing in recreational mathematics, but with interests encompassing micromagic, stage magic, pseudoscience, literature (especially the writings of Lewis Carroll), philosophy, scientific skepticism, and religion. He wrote the Mathematical Games column in Scientific American from 1956 to 1981, and he has published over 70 books. Gardner reportedly coined the term mathemagician.
Mathematical game: A mathematical game is a multiplayer game whose rules, strategies, and outcomes can be studied and explained by mathematics. Examples of such games are Tic-tac-toe and Dots and Boxes, to name a couple. On the surface, a game need not seem mathematical or complicated to still be a mathematical game. For example, even though the rules of Mancala are straightforward, mathematicians analyze the game using combinatorial game theory.
Museum of Jurassic Technology: The Museum of Jurassic Technology is at 9341 Venice Boulevard in the Palms district of Los Angeles, California, next to the Center for Land Use Interpretation. It has a Culver City address (zip code 90232). It was founded by David Hildebrand Wilson and Diana Wilson in 1989. A small branch of the museum is inside the Karl Ernst Osthaus-Museum in Hagen, Germany. In his 1995 book Mr.
Meconium aspiration syndrome: Meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS, alternatively "Neonatal aspiration of meconium") occurs when infants take meconium into their lungs during or before delivery. Meconium is the first stool of an infant, composed of materials ingested during the time the infant spends in the uterus: intestinal epithelial cells, lanugo, mucus, amniotic fluid, bile, and water. Meconium is almost sterile, unlike later feces, and has no odor.
Men at Work: Men at Work are an Australian rock band which achieved international success in the 1980s. They are the only Australian artists to have a #1 album and single simultaneously in the United States. At the same time, they also had a simultaneous #1 single and album in the United Kingdom. The group won the 1983 Grammy Award for Best New Artist and sold over 30 million albums worldwide. The band's sound is distinguished by its use of woodwind and brass instruments.
Meconium: Meconium is the earliest stools of an infant. Unlike later feces, meconium is composed of materials ingested during the time the infant spends in the uterus: intestinal epithelial cells, lanugo, mucus, amniotic fluid, bile, and water. Meconium is almost sterile, unlike later feces, is viscous and sticky like tar, and has no odor. It should be completely passed by the end of the first few days of postpartum life, with the stools progressing toward yellow (digested milk).
Montreux Convention Regarding the Regime of the Turkish Straits: The Montreux Convention Regarding the Regime of the Straits was a 1936 agreement that gives Turkey control over the Bosporus Straits and the Dardanelles and regulates military activity in the region. Signed on 20 July 1936, it permitted Turkey to remilitarise the Straits and imposed new restrictions on the passage of combatant vessels. It is still in force today, with some amendments.
Film promotion: Film promotion is the practise of promotion specifically in the film industry. As with all business it is an important part of any release because of the inherent high financial risk; film studios will invest in expensive marketing campaigns to maximize revenue early in the release cycle. Marketing budgets tend to equal anywhere between half or three times the production budget. Publicity is generally handled by the distributor and exhibitors.
Musicology: Musicology is the scholarly study of music. The word is used in narrow, broad and intermediate senses. In the narrow sense, musicology is confined to the music history of Western culture. In the intermediate sense, it includes all relevant cultures and a range of musical forms, styles, genres and traditions. In the broad sense, it includes all musically relevant disciplines and all manifestations of music in all cultures.
Michael Jordan: Michael Jeffrey Jordan (born February 17, 1963) is a retired American professional basketball player and active businessman. His biography on the National Basketball Association (NBA) website states, "By acclamation, Michael Jordan is the greatest basketball player of all time. " Jordan was one of the most effectively marketed athletes of his generation and was instrumental in popularizing the NBA around the world in the 1980s and 1990s.
Motherland: Motherland is a term that may refer to a mother country, i.e. the place of one's birth, the place of origin of an ethnic group or immigrant, or a Metropole in contrast to its colonies. Motherland is synonymous with the concept of fatherland, although perhaps carrying different psychological and cultural associations. From the earliest of times the Earth, and thereby the land, usually was depicted as a mother.
Miltiades: Miltiades or Miltiadis is a Greek name. Several historic persons have been called Miltiades (). Miltiades the Elder (died c. 524 BC) wealthy Athenian, and step-uncle of Miltiades the Younger Miltiades the Younger (c. 550 - 489 BC), tyrant of the Thracian Chersonese; took part in the Battle of Marathon Pope Miltiades (died 314), African saint and pope
Mohs scale of mineral hardness: The Mohs scale of mineral hardness characterizes the scratch resistance of various minerals through the ability of a harder material to scratch a softer material. It was created in 1812 by the German mineralogist Friedrich Mohs and is one of several definitions of hardness in materials science.
Murray Gell-Mann: Murray Gell-Mann is an American physicist who received the 1969 Nobel Prize in physics for his work on the theory of elementary particles. He formulated the quark model of hadronic resonances, and identified the SU(3) flavor symmetry of the light quarks, extending isospin to include strangeness, which he also discovered. He discovered the V-A theory of chiral neutrinos in collaboration with Richard Feynman.
Maggie Out: "Maggie Out" was a chant popular during the Miners' Strike, student grant protests, Poll Tax protests and other public demonstrations that fell within the time when Margaret Thatcher was the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. It is a variant of the "Oggy Oggy Oggy, Oi Oi Oi" chant. The chant called for her to be removed from that role.
M25 motorway: The M25 motorway is a 117 miles (188 km) orbital motorway that almost encircles Greater London, United Kingdom. The exception is the tolled Dartford Crossing which crosses the River Thames to the east of London. The motorway was first mooted early in the 20th century; a few sections were constructed in the early 1970s based on the later abandoned London Ringways and it was finally completed in 1986.
Magnetopause: The magnetopause is the abrupt boundary between a magnetic field, and surrounding plasma. The magnetopause ripples, flaps, and moves inward and outward in response to varying solar wind conditions. In terms of planetary science, the magnetopause is the outermost boundary of the region controlled by a planets magnetic field. It separates the magnetosheath and the magnetosphere.
Magnetosphere: A magnetosphere is formed when a stream of charged particles, such as the solar wind, interacts with and is deflected by the intrinsic magnetic field of a planet or similar body. Earth is surrounded by a magnetosphere, as are the other planets with intrinsic magnetic fields: Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Jupiter's moon Ganymede has a small magnetosphere but it is situated entirely within the magnetosphere of Jupiter, leading to complex interactions.
Mance Lipscomb: Mance Lipscomb (April 9, 1895 - January 30, 1976) was an influential blues singer, guitarist and songster. Born Beau De Glen Lipscomb near Navasota, Texas, he as a youth took the name of 'Mance' from a friend of his oldest brother Charlie (Mance short for emancipation).
Melbourne Cup: The Melbourne Cup is Australia's major Thoroughbred horse race. Billed as The race that stops a nation, it is a race for three-year-olds and over, over a distance of 3,200 metres. It is the richest and most prestigious "two-mile" handicap in the world, and one of the richest turf races in the world. The event is held at around 3 pm on the first Tuesday in November by the Victoria Racing Club, on the Flemington Racecourse in Melbourne.
Manama: Manama is the capital and largest city of Bahrain, with an approximate population of 155,000 people. Manama has emerged as the capital of independent Bahrain after periods of domination by Portugal and Persians earlier in its history. Today, it is a modern capital with an economy based around the sales promotion industry as crude oil takes a less pronounced role in the economy.
Mohamed Atta: Mohamed Atta ( , Muammad Aa as-Sayyid) (September 1, 1968 - September 11, 2001) was an Egyptian student who studied in Germany in the late 1990s and soon became friends with Ziad Jarrah, Marwan al-Shehhi and Ramzi Binalshibh who together formed what is now known as The Hamburg Cell. In the late 1990s, the four friends became known associates of al-Qaeda, and the ringleaders of the 19 hijackers in the September 11 attacks.
Messerschmitt Me 163: The Messerschmitt Me 163 Komet, designed by Alexander Martin Lippisch, was a German rocket-powered fighter aircraft. As of 2010, it remains the only rocket-powered fighter aircraft to have ever been operational. Its design was revolutionary, and the plane was capable of performance unrivalled at the time. Messerschmitt test pilot Rudy Opitz in 1944 reached 1,123 km/h (698 mph).
Messerschmitt Me 262: The Messerschmitt Me 262 Schwalbe was the world's first operational jet-powered fighter aircraft. Design work started before World War II opened, but engine problems meant the aircraft did not reach operational status until the summer of 1944. In combat, when properly flown, it proved to be essentially untouchable, able to outrun its Allied counterparts by as much as 100 mph.
Masovia: Masovia or Mazovia is a geographic and historic region of east-central Poland. Administrative borders of the contemporary Masovian Voivodeship do not follow historical boundaries of the region. For example, a Masovian city of oma belongs instead to the Podlaskie Voivodeship; Skierniewice belongs to Voivodeship; while Radom, historically part of Lesser Poland, is now part of the Masovian Voivodeship. The Masovia region is spread over the Polish Masovian Plain.
Medieval warfare: Medieval warfare is the warfare of the Middle Ages. In Europe, technological, cultural, and social developments had forced a dramatic transformation in the character of warfare from antiquity, changing military tactics and the role of cavalry and artillery. Similar patterns of warfare existed in other parts of the world.
Moose: The moose (North America) or common European elk (Europe), Alces alces, is the largest extant species in the deer family. Moose are distinguished by the palmate antlers of the males; other members of the family have antlers with a "twig-like" configuration. Moose typically inhabit boreal and mixed deciduous forests of the Northern Hemisphere in temperate to subarctic climates.
Magnetic tape: Magnetic tape is a medium for magnetic recording, made of a thin magnetizable coating on a long, narrow strip of plastic. Most audio, video and computer data storage is this type. It was developed in Germany, based on magnetic wire recording. Devices that record and play back audio and video using magnetic tape are tape recorders and video tape recorders. A device that stores computer data on magnetic tape is a tape drive (tape unit, streamer).
Masuria: Masuria is an area in northeastern Poland famous today for its 2000 lakes. In the 11th-13th century, the territory was inhabited by the Old Prussians, also called Baltic Prussians, an Baltic ethnic group that inhabited Prussia, the lands of the southeastern coastal region of the Baltic Sea, in the area around the Vistula and Curonian Lagoons. They spoke a language now known as Old Prussian and followed a religion believed by modern scholars to be closely related to Lithuanian paganism.
Mabo v Queensland No 2: Mabo v Queensland (No 2) (commonly known as Mabo) was a landmark Australian court case which was decided by the High Court of Australia on June 3, 1992. The effective result of the judgement was to make irrelevant the declaration of terra nullius, or "land belonging to no-one" which had been taken to occur from the commencement British colonisation in 1788, and to recognise a form of native title.
M decins Sans Fronti res: Mecins Sans Fronties (MSF), or Doctors Without Borders, is a secular humanitarian-aid non-governmental organization best known for its projects in war-torn regions and developing countries facing endemic disease.
MeatballWiki: MeatballWiki is a wiki dedicated to online communities, network culture, and hypermedia. Founded in 2000, its original goal was to focus on collaborative hypermedia, but current topics range from intellectual property to cyberpunk to the confusion of URIs. According to founder Sunir Shah, it runs "a hacked-up version of UseModWiki".
Monometer: In poetry, a monometer is a line of verse with just one metrical foot, exemplified by this portion of Robert Herrick's "Upon His Departure Hence": Thus IPasse by,And die:As one,Unknown,And gone. A more famous example is the slogan of the Milk Marketing Board in the 1970s: Drinka Pinta Milka Day whose trochaic monometer echoes Hiawatha to assert the primitive importance of milk. A poem with lines of absolutely minimal metrical length is: Beanz Meanz Heinz
Marrakech: Marrakech or Marrakesh, known as the "Red City", is an important and former imperial city in Morocco. The city of Marrakech is the capital of the mid-southwestern economic region of Marrakech-Tensift-Al Haouz, near the foothills of the snow-capped Atlas Mountains. Like many North African cities, the city of Marrakech comprises both an old fortified city and an adjacent modern city (called Gueliz) for a total population of 1,070,838.
Matilda of Ringelheim: Saint Mathilda or Saint Matilda (c. 895 - March 14 968) was the wife of Henry I, King of the East Franks and the first ruler of the Ottonian or Liudolfing dynasty. Their son, Otto, succeeded his father as King (and later Emperor) Otto I. The details of St.
Monk disambiguation: A monk is a person who practices a strict religious and ascetic lifestyle. Monk may also refer to:
Mazar-i-Sharif: Mazr-e Sharf or Mazri Sharf is the fourth largest city of Afghanistan, with population of 300,600 people (2006 estimate). It is the capital of Balkh province and is linked by roads to Kabul in the south-east, Herat to the west and Uzbekistan to the north. Mazari Sharif means "Noble Shrine," a reference to the large, blue-tiled sanctuary and mosque in the center of the city known as the Shrine of Hazrat Ali or the Blue Mosque.
Masai Mara: The Masai Mara (also spelled Maasai Mara) is a large game reserve in south-western Kenya, which is effectively the northern continuation of the Serengeti National Park game reserve in Tanzania. Named after the Maasai people (the traditional inhabitants of the area) and their description of the area when looked at from a viewpoint - "Mara", which is Maa (Maasai language) for spotted: an apt description for the circles of trees, scrub, savannah and cloud shadows that mark the area.
Metaphor: A metaphor is an analogy between two objects or ideas, conveyed by the use of a word instead of another. The English metaphor derives from the 16th-century Old French maphore, from the Latin metaphora carrying over, Greek () metaphor transfer, from () metaphero to carry over, to transfer and from () meta between + () phero, to bear, to carry.
Maasai: The Maasai (also called Masai) are an indigenous African ethnic group of semi-nomadic people located in Kenya and northern Tanzania. Due to their distinctive customs and dress and residence near the many game parks of East Africa, they are among the most well known of African ethnic groups. They speak Maa, a member of the Nilo-Saharan language family that is related to Dinka and Nuer, and are also educated in the official languages of Kenya and Tanzania: Swahili and English.
Medieval fortification: Medieval fortification is the military aspect of Medieval technology that covers the development of fortification construction and use in Europe roughly from the fall of the Western Roman Empire to the Renaissance. During this millennium, fortifications changed warfare, and in turn were modified to suit new tactics, weapons and siege techniques.
Mark Whitacre: Mark E. Whitacre (born May 1, 1957) came to public attention in 1995 when it became known that he was the highest-level executive to ever become an FBI whistleblower in U.S. history. He was the President of the BioProducts Division at Archer Daniels Midland (ADM) from 1989 to 1995. During three years (1992-1995), Whitacre had been acting as an informant for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), which was investigating ADM for price fixing.
Marrakech Agreement: The Marrakech Agreement was an agreement signed in Marrakech, Morocco, in 1994. The agreement established the World Trade Organization, which came into being upon its entry into force on January 1, 1995.
Maria Feodorovna Dagmar of Denmark: Maria Feodorovna (26 November 1847 - 13 October 1928), born Princess Dagmar of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glcksburg and later Princess Dagmar of Denmark, was Empress consort of Russia as spouse of Emperor Alexander III. She was the second daughter of King Christian IX of Denmark and Louise of Hesse-Cassel. Among her children was the last Russian monarch, Emperor Nicholas II, whom she outlived by ten years.
MAD: Mad or MAD may refer to: The state of being insane. The state of being angry. Infection with rabies, in dogs.
Mainz: Mainz is a city in Germany and the capital of the German federal state of Rhineland-Palatinate. It was a politically important seat of the Prince-elector of Mainz under the Holy Roman Empire, and previously was a Roman fort city which commanded the west bank of the Rhine and formed part of the northernmost frontier of the Roman Empire. Up until the twentieth century, Mainz was usually referred to in English as Mayence. Mainz is a city with over two thousand years of history.
Morphophonology: Morphophonology (also morphophonemics, morphonology) is a branch of linguistics which studies: The phonological structure of morphemes. The combinatory phonic modifications of morphemes which happen when they are combined The alternative series which serve a morphological function. Examples of a morphophonological alternatives in English include these distinctions: Plurals "-es" and "-s", as in "bus, buses", vs. "bun, buns".
Rail transport modelling: Railway modelling (UK, Australia, Ireland and Canada) or Model railroading (US) is a hobby in which rail transport systems are modelled at a reduced scale, or ratio. The scale models include locomotives, rolling stock, streetcars, tracks, signalling, and roads, buildings, vehicles, model figures, lights, and features such as streams, hills and canyons. The earliest model railways are the 'carpet railways' in the 1840s. Electric trains appeared around the turn of the 20th century.
Montauban: Montauban is a commune in the Tarn-et-Garonne department in the Midi-Pyrs region in southern France. It is the capital of the department and lies 31 miles (50 km) north of Toulouse. The town, built mainly of a reddish brick, stands on the right bank of the Tarn River at its confluence with the Tescou.
Mirror: A mirror is an object with at least one reflective surface. The most familiar type of mirror is the plane mirror, which has a flat surface. Curved mirrors are also used, to produce magnified or diminished images or focus light or simply distort the reflected image. Mirrors are commonly used for personal grooming (in which case the old-fashioned term "looking-glass" can be used), decoration, and architecture.
Mindanao: Mindanao is the second largest and easternmost island in the Philippines. It is also one of the three island groups in the country, along with Luzon and Visayas.
Moveable feast: In Christianity, a moveable feast or movable feast is a holy day - a feast day or a fast day - whose date is not fixed to a particular day of the calendar year but moves in response to the date of Easter, the date of which varies according to a complex formula. Easter is itself be a "moveable feast". By extension, other religions' feasts are occasionally described by the same term.
Mark McGwire: Mark McGwire (born October 1, 1963) is a former Major League Baseball player who played his major league career with the Oakland Athletics and the St. Louis Cardinals. He replaced Hal McRae as the for the St. Louis Cardinals for 2010. For his career, McGwire averaged a home run once every 10.61 at bats, the lowest at bats per home run ratio in baseball history (Ryan Howard is second at 11.32 and Babe Ruth is third at 11.80).
Montevideo Convention: The Montevideo Convention on the Rights and Duties of States was a treaty signed at Montevideo, Uruguay, on December 26, 1933, during the Seventh International Conference of American States. The Convention codified the declarative theory of statehood as accepted as part of customary international law. At the conference, United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Secretary of State Cordell Hull declared the Good Neighbor Policy, which opposed U.S.
Macrolide: The macrolides are a group of drugs whose activity stems from the presence of a macrolide ring, a large macrocyclic lactone ring to which one or more deoxy sugars, usually cladinose and desosamine, may be attached. The lactone rings are usually 14, 15 or 16-membered. Macrolides belong to the polyketide class of natural products.
Millenia: Millenia can refer to: a common misspelling of the plural (millennia) of millennium, a period of 1,000 years Millenia, a model of automobile produced by Mazda Millenia, one of the main characters in the video game Grandia II
Meta element: Meta elements are HTML or XHTML elements used to provide structured metadata about a Web page. Such elements must be placed as tags in the head section of an HTML or XHTML document. Meta elements can be used to specify page description, keywords and any other metadata not provided through the other head elements and attributes. The meta element has four valid attributes: content, http-equiv, name, and scheme. Of these, only content is a required attribute.
MARCKS protein: MARCKS proteins (myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate) play important roles in cell shape, cell motility, secretion, transmembrane transport, and regulation of the cell cycle. Recently, MARCKS has been implicated in the exocytosis of a number of vesicles and granules such as mucin and chromaffin. They are acidic proteins with high proportions of alanine, glycine, proline, and glutamic acid.
Malleus Maleficarum: The Malleus Maleficarum (Latin for "The Hammer of Witches", or "Der Hexenhammer" in German) is a famous treatise on witches, written in 1486 by Heinrich Kramer, an Inquisitor of the Catholic Church, and was first published in Germany in 1487. Jacob Sprenger is also often attributed as an author, but some scholars now believe that he became associated with the Malleus Maleficarum largely as a result of Kramer's wish to lend his book as much official authority as possible.
Macro computer science: A macro (from the Greek "" for big or far) in computer science is a rule or pattern that specifies how a certain input sequence (often a sequence of characters) should be mapped to an output sequence (also often a sequence of characters) according to a defined procedure. The mapping process that instantiates a macro into a specific output sequence is known as macro expansion.
Mecha: Mecha, also known as meka or mechs, are a broad genre of walking vehicles which are usually controlled by a pilot. Mecha often appearing in anime, science fiction, or other genres involving a fantastic or futuristic element. Mecha are generally, though not necessarily, bipedal, with arms, hands, and usually fingers capable of grasping objects.
Mesolithic: The Mesolithic or "Middle Stone Age" was a period in the development of human technology in between the Paleolithic or Old Stone Age and the Neolithic or New Stone Age. The term was introduced by John Lubbock in his work Pre-historic Times, published in 1865. The term was, however, not much used until V. Gordon Childe popularized it in his book The Dawn of Europe (1947).
Mandy Patinkin: Mandel Bruce "Mandy" Patinkin (born November 30, 1952) is an American actor of stage and screen and a tenor vocalist. Patinkin is known for his roles in television series such as: Chicago Hope, Dead Like Me and the first two seasons of Criminal Minds. His film credits include The Princess Bride, Alien Nation, Yentl, Men With Guns, Run Ronnie Run, Dick Tracy, and The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland.
Mel Smith: Mel Smith (born 3 December 1952) is an English comedian, actor, film director, writer and producer.
Metis: Metis () meant "cunningness" or "craft, skill" in Ancient Greek.
Mary Robinson: Mary Therese Winifred Robinson served as the seventh, and first female, President of Ireland, serving from 1990 to 1997, and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, from 1997 to 2002. She first rose to prominence as an academic, barrister, campaigner and member of the Irish senate (1969-1989).
Micron disambiguation: Micron can refer to: Micron, a non-SI name for micrometre Micron (wool), is the measurement used to express the diameter of a wool fibre. A small curved diacritic mark above some letters, used to indicate shortness, e.g.
Musical theatre: Musical theatre is a form of theatre combining music, songs, spoken dialogue and dance. The emotional content of the piece - humor, pathos, love, anger - as well as the story itself, is communicated through the words, music, movement and technical aspects of the entertainment as an integrated whole. Since the early 20th century, musical theatre stage works have generally been called simply, "musicals". Musicals are performed all around the world.
Magic lantern disambiguation: Magic lantern may refer to:
Motion physics: In physics, motion is change of location or position of an object with respect to time. Change in motion is the result of an applied force. Motion is typically described in terms of velocity, acceleration, displacement, and time. An object's velocity cannot change unless it is acted upon by a force, as described by Newton's first law also known as Inertia.
Malpractice: In law, malpractice is a type of negligence in which the misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance of a professional, under a duty to act, fails to follow generally accepted professional standards, and that breach of duty is the proximate cause of injury to a plaintiff who suffers damages. It is committed by a professional or her/his subordinates or agents on behalf of a client or patient that causes damages to the client or patient.
Mediation: Mediation, a form of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) or "appropriate dispute resolution", aims to determine the conditions of any settlements reached rather than accepting something imposed by a third party. The disputes may involve (as parties) states, organizations, communities, individuals or other representatives with a vested interest in the outcome.
Morgan Freeman: Morgan Porterfield Freeman, Jr. (born June 1, 1937) is an American actor, film director, and narrator. He is noted for his reserved demeanor and authoritative speaking voice. Freeman has received Academy Award nominations for his performances in Street Smart, Driving Miss Daisy, The Shawshank Redemption and Invictus and won in 2005 for Million Dollar Baby. He has also won a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
Misdemeanor: A misdemeanor, or misdemeanour in many common law legal systems, is a "lesser" criminal act. Misdemeanors are generally punished much less severely than felonies, but theoretically more so than administrative infractions (also known as regulatory offenses). Many misdemeanors are punished with monetary fines. In the United States, the federal government generally considers a crime punishable with incarceration for one year or less to be a misdemeanor. All other crimes are felonies.
Maeshowe: Maeshowe (or Maes Howe) is a Neolithic chambered cairn and passage grave situated on Mainland, Orkney, Scotland. The monuments around Maeshowe, including Skara Brae, were designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1999. It gives its name to the Maeshowe type of chambered cairn, which is limited to Orkney. However, Maeshowe is very similar to the famous Newgrange tomb in Ireland, suggesting a linkage between the two cultures.
M107: M107 or M-107 may refer to: Messier 107 (M107), a globular cluster in the constellation Ophiuchus M107 (projectile), a 155 mm projectile used by the United States Army M107 Self-Propelled Gun, an American 175 mm self-propelled gun XM107/M107 Barrett rifle, a semi-automatic .50 caliber rifle M-107 (Michigan highway), a former state highway in Michigan
Fujiwara no Michinaga: Fujiwara no Michinaga represents the highpoint of the Fujiwara regents' control over the government of Japan. Michinaga exerted de facto reign over Japan in the early 11th century. This can be seen from the fact that he was father to four (non-reigning) empresses, uncle to two emperors and grandfather to another three. He was the fourth or fifth son of Fujiwara no Kaneie by his wife Tokihime, daughter of Fujiwara no Nakamasa.
Fujiwara no Mototsune: Fujiwara no Mototsune continued the trend begun by Yoshifusa of monopolizing the position of regent to the Japanese emperor. He was third son of Fujiwara no Nagara, brother of Yoshifusa, and Fujiwara no Otoharu (), daughter of Fujiwara no Tsugutada. He was adopted by Yoshifusa who had no sons, and Mototsune followed in Yoshifusa's footsteps. After the emperor had reached his maturity, however, Mototsune invented the position of kampaku regent for himself.
Mathematical model: A mathematical model uses mathematical language to describe a system. Mathematical models are used not only in the natural sciences and engineering disciplines but also in the social sciences; physicists, engineers, computer scientists, and economists use mathematical models most extensively. The process of developing a mathematical model is termed 'mathematical modelling' (also modeling).
Mieszko II Lambert: Mieszko II Lambert (b. ca. 990 - d. 10/11 May 1034), was King of Poland during 1025-1031, and Duke from 1032 until his death. He was the second son of Bolesaw I the Brave, but the eldest born from his third wife Enmilda, daughter of Dobromir, possible ruler of Lusatia. He was named probably after his paternal grandfather, Mieszko I. His second name, Lambert, sometimes erroneously considered to be a nickname, was given to him as a manifestation of the cult to Saint Lambert.
Mieszko I of Poland: Mieszko I (b. ca. 920/45 - d. 25 May 992), was a Duke of the Polans from about 960 until his death. Member of the Piast dynasty, he was son of the legendary Siemomys, grandchild of Lestek and father of Bolesaw I the Brave, the first crowned King of Poland, and witosawa (Sigrid), a Nordic Queen. The first historical ruler of Poland, Mieszko I is considered the de facto creator of the Polish state.
Maggieknockater: Maggieknockater (Magh an Fhucadair in Scottish Gaelic) is a hamlet on the A95 road between Craigellachie and Mulben in Scotland in the Moray council area, in the former county of Banffshire. Until the early 1970s there was large apiary which was well known in the region and has lived on in the Scottish country dance "The Bees of Maggieknockater". The meaning of Maggieknockater is "field of the fuller" or "plain of the hilly ridge" and has nothing to do with a woman called Maggie.
Mary Queen of Scots: Mary, Queen of Scots (born as Mary Stewart and, in French, as Marie Stuart; 8 December 1542 - 8 February 1587), was Scottish Queen regnant from 14 December 1542 to 24 July 1567. In the lists of Scottish sovereigns, she is recognized as Mary I (Mary II being her great-great-granddaughter). She was the only surviving legitimate child of King James V. She was six days old when her father died and was crowned nine months later.
Man'y sh: Man'ysh (, man'ysh, "Collection of Ten Thousand Leaves") is the oldest existing collection of Japanese poetry, compiled some time around 759 A.D. during the Nara period. The anthology is one of the most revered of Japan's poetic compilations. The compiler, or the final in a series of compilers, is believed to be tomo no Yakamochi. The collection contains poems ranging from A.D. 347 (poems #85-89) through 759 (#4516), the bulk of them representing the period after 600.
Lesser Poland Voivodeship: Lesser Poland Voivodeship (or simply Maopolskie) is a voivodeship, or province, in southern Poland. It has an area of 15,108 square kilometres (5,833 sq mi), and a population of 3,267,731 (2006). It was created on 1 January 1999 out of the former Krak, Tarn, Nowy Scz and parts of Bielsko-Biaa, Katowice, Kielce and Krosno Voivodeships, pursuant to the Polish local government reforms adopted in 1998. The province's name recalls the region's traditional name, Maopolska or Lesser Poland.
Macbeth of Scotland: Mac Bethad mac Findlach was King of the Scots (also known as the King of Alba, and earlier as King of Moray and King of Fortriu) from 1040 until his death. He is best known as the subject of William Shakespeare's tragedy Macbeth and the many works it has inspired.
ML programming language: ML is a general-purpose functional programming language developed by Robin Milner and others in the late 1970s at the University of Edinburgh, whose syntax is inspired by ISWIM. Historically, ML stands for metalanguage: it was conceived to develop proof tactics in the LCF theorem prover (whose language, pplambda, a combination of the first-order predicate calculus and the simply typed polymorphic lambda-calculus, had ML as its metalanguage).
Mambo music: Mambo is a Cuban musical form and dance style that achieved popularity in Havana, Mexico City and New York City. The word mambo means conversation with the gods in Kikongo, the language spoken by Central African slaves taken to Cuba.
Messier object: The Messier objects are a set of astronomical objects first listed by French astronomer Charles Messier for 1774 (published in 1771). The original motivation of the catalogue was that Messier was a comet hunter, and was frustrated by objects which resembled but were not comets. He therefore compiled a list of these objects, in collaboration with his assistant Pierre Mhain. The first edition covered 45 objects numbered M1 to M45.
Montoneros: Montoneros was an Argentine Peronist urban guerrilla group, active during the 1960s and 1970s. Its motto was venceremos ("we shall overcome"). After Juan Per's return from 18 years of exile and the June 20, 1973 Ezeiza massacre, which marked the definitive split between left and right-wing Peronism, the Montoneros were expelled from the Justicialist party in May 1974 by Per. The group was almost completely dismantled in 1977, during Videla's dictatorship.
Millbridge Plymouth: Millbridge is a small neighbourhood of Plymouth, on the boundary of what used to be the towns of Plymouth and Devonport, in the English county of Devon. What was originally a self-standing village (which has now been subsumed within the city) lies to the north of the toll bridge, originally built by Sir Piers Edgcumbe in 1525, that crossed what used to be the Deadlake or Stonehouse Creek, to the west of Pennycomequick, the south of Stoke village and to the east of Stoke Church.
Monophyly: In common cladistic usage, a monophyletic group is a taxon (group of organisms) which forms a clade, meaning that it consists of an ancestor and all its descendants. The term is synonymous with the uncommon term holophyly. It is contrasted with the terms paraphyly, which is a taxon consisting of an ancestor and some of its descendants, and polyphyly, which is a taxon that does not share a common ancestor. Monophyletic groups are characterized by shared derived characteristics.
Mechanical advantage: In physics and engineering, mechanical advantage (MA) is the factor by which a mechanism multiplies the force or torque applied to it. Generally, the mechanical advantage is calculated as follows: or more simply: The first equation shows that the force exerted IN to the machine multiplied by the distance moved IN will always be equal to the force exerted OUT of the machine multiplied by the distance moved OUT.
Morphine: Morphine (MS Contin, MSIR, Avinza, Kadian, Oramorph, Roxanol) is an extremely potent opiate analgesic psychoactive drug, is the principal active ingredient in Papaver somniferum, is considered to be the prototypical opioid. In clinical medicine, morphine is regarded as the gold standard, or benchmark, of analgesics used to relieve severe or agonizing pain and suffering. Like other opioids, e.g.
Martin Bormann: Martin Ludwig Bormann (17 June 1900 - 2 May 1945) was a prominent Nazi official. He became head of the Party Chancellery (Parteikanzlei) and private secretary to Adolf Hitler. He gained Hitler's trust and derived immense power within the Third Reich by controlling access to the Fhrer and by regulating the orbits of those closest to him.
Marathi language: Marathi ( Marh) is an Indo-Aryan language spoken by the Marathi people of western and central India. It is the official language of the state of Maharashtra. There are 90 million fluent speakers worldwide. Marathi is the 4th most spoken language in India and the 15th most spoken language in the world. Marathi is the oldest of the regional literatures in Indo-Aryan languages, dating from about AD 1000.
Madeline Amy Sweeney: Madeline Amy Sweeney, known as Amy Sweeney (December 14, 1966 - September 11, 2001), was a flight attendant on board American Airlines Flight 11 when it was flown into the North Tower of the World Trade Center as part of the September 11 attacks.
Microtubule: Microtubules are one of the components of the cytoskeleton. They have a diameter of 25 nm and length varying from 200 nanometers to 25 micrometers. Microtubules serve as structural components within cells and are involved in many cellular processes including mitosis, cytokinesis, and vesicular transport.
Multiprotocol Label Switching: Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) is a mechanism in high-performance telecommunications networks which directs and carries data from one network node to the next. MPLS makes it easy to create "virtual links" between distant nodes. It can encapsulate packets of various network protocols. MPLS is a highly scalable, protocol agnostic, data-carrying mechanism. In an MPLS network, data packets are assigned labels.
Militia: The term militia (pronounced milisha) is commonly used today to refer to a military force composed of ordinary citizens to provide defense, emergency law enforcement, or paramilitary service, in times of emergency without being paid a regular salary or committed to a fixed term of service. It is a polyseme with multiple distinct but related meanings. Legal and historical meanings of militia include: Defense activity or service, to protect a community, its territory, property, and laws.
Message transfer agent: Within Internet message handling services (MHS), a message transfer agent or mail transfer agent (MTA) or mail relay is a computer process or software agent that transfers electronic mail messages from one computer to another, in single hop application-level transactions. An MTA implements both the client (sending) and server (receiving) portions of the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol.
Makran: Makran is a semi-desert coastal strip in the south of Balochistan, in Iran and Pakistan, along the coast of the Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman. The Persian phrase Mahi khoran, fish-eaters (Mahi = fish + khor = eat) is believed to be the origin of the modern word Makkuran. The narrow coastal plain rises very rapidly into several mountain ranges. Of the 1,000 km coastline, about 750 km is in Pakistan. The climate is very dry with very little rainfall.
Micrometre: A micrometre or micron is one millionth of a meter, or equivalently one thousandth of a millimeter or one thousand nanometers. It can also be written in scientific notation as 1&times;10 m, meaning 1000000 m. A strand of human hair is about 100 wide. Red blood cells are approx. 8 in diameter. The micrometre is a common unit of measurement for wavelengths of infrared radiation.
Macrinus: Marcus Opellius Macrinus (ca. 165 - June 218) was Roman emperor for fourteen months in 217 and 218. Macrinus was the first emperor to become so without membership in the senatorial class. Macrinus was of Berber descent.
Minotaur: In Greek mythology, the Minotaur, as the Greeks imagined him, was a creature with the head of a bull on the body of a man or, as described by Ovid, "part man and part bull. " He dwelt at the center of the Cretan Labyrinth, which was an elaborate maze-like construction built for King Minos of Crete and designed by the architect Daedalus and his son Icarus who were ordered to build it to hold the Minotaur. The Minotaur was eventually killed by Theseus, the son of Aegeas.
Memex: The memex (a portmanteau of "memory" and "index", like Rolodex an earlier index portmanteau common at the time) is the name given by Vannevar Bush to the theoretical proto-hypertext computer system he proposed in his 1945 The Atlantic Monthly article As We May Think. The memex is a device in which an individual compresses and stores all of their books, records, and communications which is then mechanized so that it may be consulted with exceeding speed and flexibility.
Modulation: In electronics, modulation is the process of varying one or more properties of high frequency periodic waveform, called the carrier signal, with respect to a modulating signal. This is done in a similar fashion as a musician may modulate the tone from a musical instrument by varying its volume, timing and pitch.
Mac OS X: Mac OS X is a series of operating systems and graphical user interfaces developed, marketed, and sold by Apple Inc. Since 2002, Mac OS X has been included with all new Macintosh computer systems. It is the successor to Mac OS 9, the final release of the "classic" Mac OS, which had been Apple's primary operating system since 1984.
Mattel: Mattel Inc. is the world's largest toy company based on revenue. The products it produces include Barbie dolls, Hot Wheels and Matchbox cars, Masters of the Universe, American Girl dolls, board games, and, in the early 1980s, video game consoles. It was founded in 1945 by Harold "Matt" Matson and Elliot Handler (hence the name "matt-el"). Handler's wife, Ruth Handler, later became president, and is credited with establishing the Barbie product line for the company in 1959.
Maharashtra: Maharashtra is a state located in the western part of peninsular India. It is India's third largest state by area and second largest by population. It is also the richest state in India, contributing to 15% of the country's industrial output and 13.2% of its GDP in year 2005-06.
The Medallions: The Medallions were a rhythm and blues band led by Vernon Green. They were the first doo-wop group to record for Dootone Records. Their first release, "Buick 59," (based on Todd Rhodes's double-entendre R&B hit "Rocket 88") was backed with a ballad called "The Letter. " "The Letter" contained the nonsense lyric, "the pompetudes of love," which was later picked up by the Steve Miller Band as "the Pompatus of love.
Morphology linguistics: Morphology is the identification, analysis and description of the structure of words (words as units in the lexicon are the subject matter of lexicology). While words are generally accepted as being the smallest units of syntax, it is clear that in most (if not all) languages, words can be related to other words by rules. For example, English speakers recognize that the words dog, dogs, and dog catcher are closely related.
Melting: "Molten" redirects here For the Japanese company, see Molten Corporation; or see Molton or Moulton. Melting, or fusion, is a physical process that results in the phase change of a substance from a solid to a liquid. The internal energy of a substance is increased, typically by the application of heat or pressure, resulting in a rise of its temperature to the melting point, at which the rigid ordering of molecular entities in the solid breaks down to a less-ordered state and the solid liquefies.
Martin Waldseem ller: Martin Waldseemller (Latinized Martinus Ilacomylus, Ilacomilus or Hylacomylus, c. 1470 - Saint-Di-des-Vosges 1520, March 16) was a German cartographer. He and Matthias Ringmann are credited with the first recorded usage of the word America, on the 1507 map Universalis Cosmographia in honor of the Florentine explorer Amerigo Vespucci.
Macroevolution: Macroevolution is a scale of analysis of evolution in separated gene pools. Macroevolutionary studies focus on change that occurs at or above the level of species, in contrast with microevolution, which refers to smaller evolutionary changes (typically described as changes in allele frequencies) within a species or population. The process of speciation may fall within the purview of either, depending on the forces thought to drive it.
Mercalli intensity scale: The Mercalli intensity scale is a scale used for measuring the intensity of an earthquake. The scale quantifies the effects of an earthquake on the Earth's surface, humans, objects of nature, and man-made structures on a scale of I through XII, with I denoting not felt, and XII total destruction. The values will differ based on the distance to the earthquake, with the highest intensities being around the epicentral area.
MV Blue Marlin: MV Blue Marlin and her sister ship MV Black Marlin comprise the Marlin class of semi-submersible heavy lift ship. They were owned by Offshore Heavy Transport of Oslo, Norway from their construction, in April 2000 and November 1999 respectively, until 6 July 2001, when they were purchased by Dockwise Shipping of the Netherlands.
Moonie Unification Church: Moonie (plural Moonies) is a term which refers to members of the Unification Church; it is derived from the name of church founder Sun Myung Moon. Some dictionaries call it offensive or derogatory; others do not. It has been used by critics of the church since the 1970s. Church members have used the term, including Sun Myung Moon, President of the Unification Theological Seminary David Kim, and Moon's aide Bo Hi Pak.
Megadeth: Megadeth is an American thrash metal band from Los Angeles, California, formed in 1983. Founded by guitarist/vocalist Dave Mustaine and bassist David Ellefson following Mustaine's departure from Metallica, the band has since released twelve studio albums, six live albums, two EPs, twenty six singles, thirty-two music videos, and three compilations.
The Mickey Mouse Club: The Mickey Mouse Club is a long-running American variety television show that began in 1955, produced by Walt Disney Productions and televised by the American Broadcasting Company, featuring a regular but ever-changing cast of teenage performers. The Mickey Mouse Club was created by Walt Disney. The series has been revived, reformatted and reimagined several times since its initial 1955-1959 run on ABC.
Metre Convention: The Metre Convention of May 20, 1875 is a treaty which established three international organizations to oversee the keeping of metric standards. It is written in French, in which it is called the Convention du Mre. In English it is also called the Treaty of the Meter. It was revised in 1921. In 1960, the system of units it established was renamed the "International System of Units" (Syste international d'unit or SI).
Minos: In Greek mythology, Minos was a mythical king of Crete, son of Zeus and Europa. After his death, Minos became a judge of the dead in Hades. The Minoan civilization of pre-Hellene Crete has been named after him. By his wife, Pasipha, he fathered Ariadne, Androgeus, Deucalion, Phaedra, Glaucus, Catreus, Acacallis, and many others. Minos, along with his brothers, Rhadamanthys and Sarpedon, was raised by king Asterion (or Asterius) of Crete.
My Neighbor Totoro: My Neighbor Totoro, is a 1988 Japanese anime film written and directed by Hayao Miyazaki and produced by Studio Ghibli. The film follows the two young daughters of a professor and their interactions with friendly wood spirits in postwar rural Japan. The film won the Animage Anime Grand Prix prize in 1988. The film was originally released in the U.S. on VHS and Laserdisc with the title, My Friend Totoro.
Matthew the Evangelist: Matthew the Evangelist was, according to Christian tradition, one of the twelve Apostles of Jesus and one of the four Evangelists. Matthew, a former tax collector, composed the Gospel of Christ. It was first published in Judea in Hebrew for Hebrew Christians. It was later translated into Greek. Moreover the Hebrew Gospel itself was brought to the Library of Carea by Pamphilus. The Nazarenes, who used it, had a copy of it transcribed for Jerome.
Maribor: Maribor is the second largest city in Slovenia, with 106,308 inhabitants as of 2008. Maribor lies on the river Drava at the meeting point of the Pohorje mountain, the Drava Valley, the Drava Plain, and the Kozjak and Slovenske gorice hill ranges. Maribor's coat of arms features a white dove flying downwards above a white castle with two towers and a portcullis on a red shield.
MAC address: In computer networking, a Media Access Control address (MAC address) is a unique identifier assigned to most network adapters or network interface cards (NICs) by the manufacturer for identification, and used in the Media Access Control protocol sub-layer. If assigned by the manufacturer, a MAC address usually encodes the manufacturer's registered identification number. It may also be known as an Ethernet Hardware Address (EHA), hardware address, adapter address, or physical address.
Mary of Hungary: Mary (c. 1371 - 17 May 1395, Buda, Hungary) was queen regnant of Hungary from 1382 until her death in 1395.
Microvision: The Microvision was the very first hand-held game console using interchangeable cartridges. It was released by the Milton Bradley Company in November 1979. The Microvision was designed by Jay Smith, the engineer who would later design the Vectrex gaming console. The Microvision's combination of portability and a cartridge-based system led to moderate success, with Smith Engineering grossing $8 million in the first year of the system's release.
Mehrgarh: Mehrgarh, one of the most important Neolithic sites in archaeology, lies on what is now the "Kachi plain" of today's Balochistan, Pakistan. It is one of the earliest sites with evidence of farming (wheat and barley) and herding (cattle, sheep and goats) in South Asia.".
MIPS Technologies: MIPS Technologies, Inc. , formerly MIPS Computer Systems, Inc. , is most widely known for developing the MIPS architecture and a series of pioneering RISC CPUs. MIPS provides processor architectures and cores for digital consumer, networking, personal entertainment, communications and business applications. MIPS Computer Systems Inc. was founded in 1984 by a group of researchers from Stanford University that included John L. Hennessy, as a vendor of microprocessor chips.
Machine code: Machine code or machine language is a system of instructions and data executed directly by a computer's central processing unit. Machine code may be regarded as a primitive (and cumbersome) programming language or as the lowest-level representation of a compiled and/or assembled computer program. Programs in interpreted languages are not represented by machine code however, although their interpreter (which may be seen as a processor executing the higher level program) often is.
Rovi Corporation: Rovi Corporation is a globally-operating, US-based company that provides technology solutions for digital entertainment devices and services. Its customers include consumer electronics manufacturers, cable television and satellite television operators, movie studios and online entertainment portals and content distributors. Rovi was known as Macrovision Solutions Corporation until it changed its name in July 2009.
Instructions per second: Instructions per second (IPS) is a measure of a computer's processor speed. Many reported IPS values have represented "peak" execution rates on artificial instruction sequences with few branches, whereas realistic workloads typically lead to significantly lower IPS values. The performance of the memory hierarchy also greatly affects processor performance, an issue barely considered in MIPS calculations.
Mindaugas: Mindaugas (ca. 1200 - 12 September 1263) was the first known Grand Duke of Lithuania and the only King of Lithuania. Little is known of his origins, early life, or rise to power; he is mentioned in a 1219 treaty as an elder duke, and in 1236 as the leader of all the Lithuanians. The contemporary and modern sources discussing his ascent mention strategic marriages along with banishment or murder of his rivals.
Modafinil: Modafinil (Provigil/Alertec/Modavigil/Modalert, in India) is an analeptic drug manufactured by Cephalon, and is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of narcolepsy, shift work sleep disorder, and excessive daytime sleepiness associated with obstructive sleep apnea. Modafinil, like other stimulants, increases the release of monoamines, specifically the catecholamines norepinephrine and dopamine, from the synaptic terminals.
Class set theory: In set theory and its applications throughout mathematics, a class is a collection of sets (or sometimes other mathematical objects) which can be unambiguously defined by a property that all its members share. The precise definition of "class" depends on foundational context. In work on ZF set theory, the notion of class is informal, whereas other set theories, such as NBG set theory, axiomatize the notion of "class". Every set is a class, no matter which foundation is chosen.
Masorti: The Masorti movement is the name given to Conservative Judaism in Israel and other countries outside Canada and U.S. Masorti means "traditional" in Hebrew. It should not be confused with the large part of Israeli Jews (25% to 50% depending on definitions) who define themselves as "masorati" - meaning religiously "traditional" and at least nominally Orthodox.
Metric: Metric(s) may refer to: the metric system of measurement International System of Units, or Syste International (SI), the modern form of the metric system METRIC a computer model (Mapping EvapoTranspiration at high Resolution with Internalized Calibration) that uses Landsat satellite data to compute and map evapotranspiration (ET).
Michael Atiyah: Sir Michael Francis Atiyah, OM, FRS, FRSE (born 22 April 1929) is a Britishmathematician, and one of the most influential mathematicians of the twentieth century. He grew up in Sudan and Egypt, and spent most of his academic life at Oxford, Cambridge, and the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton.
Mordecai Kaplan: Mordecai Menahem Kaplan (June 11, 1881, venionys - November 8, 1983, New York City), a rabbi, essayist and Jewish educator, was the ideologue of Reconstructionist Judaism which he founded with his son-in-law Ira Eisenstein. Kaplan was born in venionys, Lithuania to Rabbi Israel and Haya (Anna) Kaplan. In 1889 he immigrated to the United States with his mother and sisters to join his father in New York who was work with the Chief Rabbi Jacob Joseph.
MOS Technology: MOS Technology, Inc. , also known as CSG (Commodore Semiconductor Group), was a semiconductor design and fabrication company based in Norristown, Pennsylvania, in the United States. It is most famous for its 6502 microprocessor, and various designs for Commodore International's range of home computers.
Mathilde Roth Schechter: Mathilde Roth Schechter (1859-1924) was the American founder of the U.S. National Women's League of Conservative Judaism in 1918. She was married to Rabbi Dr. Solomon Schechter, a prominent rabbi who was chancellor of the Jewish Theological Seminary. She founded and taught at the Columbia Religious and Industrial School for Jewish Girls. After assisting Henrietta Szold in creating Hadassah, Schechter later served as its national chairwoman of education.
Margaret Sanger: Margaret Higgins Sanger Slee (September 14, 1879 - September 6, 1966) was an American birth control activist and the founder of the American Birth Control League.
Mobil: Mobil is a major American oil company which merged with Exxon in 1999 to form ExxonMobil. Today Mobil continues as a major brand name within the combined company. Its former headquarters in Fairfax County, Virginia, are currently used as ExxonMobil's downstream headquarters.
Mary II of England: Mary II (30 April 1662 - 28 December 1694) was Queen regnant of England, Scotland, and Ireland from 1689 until her death. Mary, a Protestant, came to the thrones following the Glorious Revolution, which resulted in the deposition of her Roman Catholic father, James II and VII. Mary reigned jointly with her husband and first cousin, William III and II, who became the sole ruler of both countries upon her death in 1694.
Measuring instrument: In the physical sciences, quality assurance, and engineering, measurement is the activity of obtaining and comparing physical quantities of real-world objects and events. Established standard objects and events are used as units, and the process of measurement gives a number relating the item under study and the referenced unit of measurement. Measuring instruments, and formal test methods which define the instrument's use, are the means by which these relations of numbers are obtained.
Mary I of England: Mary I (18 February 1516 - 17 November 1558) was Queen regnant of England and Queen regnant of Ireland from 19 July 1553 until her death. She was the eldest daughter of Henry VIII and only surviving child of Catherine of Aragon. As the fourth crowned monarch of the Tudor dynasty, she is remembered for restoring England to Roman Catholicism after succeeding her short-lived half brother, Edward VI, to the English throne.
Manu: Manu may refer to:
Mellitus: Mellitus (died 24 April 624) was the first Bishop of London, the third Archbishop of Canterbury, and a member of the Gregorian mission sent to England to convert the Anglo-Saxons. He arrived in 601 AD with a group of clergymen sent to augment the mission, and was consecrated as Bishop of London in 604.
Mineraloid: A mineraloid is a mineral-like substance that does not demonstrate crystallinity. Mineraloids possess chemical compositions that vary beyond the generally accepted ranges for specific minerals. For example, obsidian is an amorphous glass and not a crystal. Jet is derived from decaying wood under extreme pressure. Opal is another mineraloid because of its non-crystal nature.
M'Naghten Rules: The M'Naghten Rules (pronounced, and sometimes spelled, McNaughton) were the first serious attempt to rationalize the attitude of the criminal law towards mentally incompetent defendants. They arise from the attempted assassination of the British Prime Minister, Robert Peel, in 1843 by Daniel M'Naghten. In fact, M'Naghten fired a pistol at the back of Peel's secretary, Edward Drummond, who died five days later.
Marbury v. Madison: Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. 137 (1803) is a landmark case in United States law. It formed the basis for the exercise of judicial review in the United States under Article III of the Constitution. This case resulted from a petition to the Supreme Court by William Marbury, who had been appointed by President John Adams as Justice of the Peace in the District of Columbia but whose commission was not subsequently delivered.
Mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics: The mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics is the body of mathematical formalisms which permits a rigorous description of quantum mechanics. It is distinguished from mathematical formalisms for theories developed prior to the early 1900s by the use of abstract mathematical structures, such as infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces and operators on these spaces.
Microlith: A microlith is a small stone tool that is sufficiently worked so as to be distinguishable from workshop waste or accidents. They are usually made of flint or chert and are typically one centimetre long and half a centimetre wide. Microliths were produced from either small blades or larger blades by abrupt or truncated retouching, which leaves a very typical piece of waste. Two families of microlith are usually defined: laminar and geometric.
Pointing device gesture: In computing, a pointing device gesture is a way of combining pointing device movements and clicks which the software recognizes as a specific command. Pointing device gestures can provide quick access to common functions of a program. They can also be useful for people who have difficulties typing on a keyboard.
Menorah Temple: The menorah, is a seven-branched candelabrum which has been a symbol of Judaism for almost 3000 years and is the emblem of Israel. It was used in the ancient Holy Temple in Jerusalem. Lit by olive oil in the Tabernacle and the Temple, the menorah is one of the oldest symbols of the Jewish people. It is said to symbolize the burning bush as seen by Moses on Mount Horeb.
Multiple document interface: Graphical computer applications with a multiple document interface (MDI) are those whose windows reside under a single parent window (usually except for modal windows), as opposed to all windows being separate from each other. In the usability community, there has been much debate about which interface type is preferable. Generally, SDI is seen as more useful in cases where users work with more than one application. Software companies have used both interfaces with mixed responses.
Maglev: Maglev can refer to: Magnetic levitation, a method by which an object is suspended using magnetic fields Maglev (transport), a form of rail transport using magnetic levitation MagLev (Ruby interpreter), a virtual machine for the Ruby programming language
Monorail: A monorail is a rail-based transportation system based on a single rail, which acts as its sole support and its guideway. The term is also used variously to describe the beam of the system, or the vehicles traveling on such a beam or track. The term originates from the contraction of the words mono (single) and rail, from as early as 1897 as early systems used metal rails. The transportation system is often referred to as a railway.
Michael Halliday: Michael Alexander Kirkwood Halliday (often M.A.K. Halliday) (born 1925) is a British linguist who developed an internationally influential grammar model, the systemic functional grammar (which also goes by the name of systemic functional linguistics). Halliday was born and raised in England. He took a BA Honours degree in Modern Chinese Language and Literature (Mandarin) at the University of London.
Moctezuma II: Moctezuma (c. 1466 - June 1520), also known by a number of variant spellings including Montezuma, Moteuczoma, Motecuhzoma and referred to in full by early Nahuatl texts as Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin and similar, was the ninth tlatoani or ruler of Tenochtitlan, reigning from 1502 to 1520. It was during Moctezuma's reign that the episode known as the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire began.
Mustafa Alt oklar: Mustafa Altoklar is a famous Turkish film director, producer and screenwriter.
Moctezuma I: Moctezuma I (c. 1398 - 1469), also known as Motecuhzoma Ilhuicamina, Huehuemotecuhzoma or Montezuma I, was the fifth Aztec emperor. During his reign the Aztec Empire was consolidated, major expansion was undertaken and Tenochtitlan started becoming the dominant partner of the Aztec Triple Alliance.
Mickey Hart: Mickey Hart (born Michael Steven Hartman; September 11, 1943) is an American percussionist and musicologist. He is best known as one of the two drummers of the rock band the Grateful Dead. He was a member of the Grateful Dead from September 1967 to February 1971, and from October 1974 to August 1995. He and fellow Dead drummer Bill Kreutzmann earned the nickname "the rhythm devils".
Miguel de Icaza: Miguel de Icaza (born c. 1972) is a Mexican free software programmer, best known for starting the GNOME and Mono projects.
Major scale: In music theory, the major scale or Ionian scale is one of the diatonic scales. It is made up of seven distinct notes, plus an eighth which duplicates the first an octave higher. In solfege these notes correspond to the syllables "Do, Re, Mi, Fa, Sol, La, Ti/SiDo)". The simplest major scale to write or play on the piano is C major, the only major scale not to require sharps or flats, using only the white keys on the piano keyboard:
Muslim Brotherhood: The Muslim Brothers is a Sunni transnational movement and the largest political opposition organization in many Arab states, particularly Egypt. The world's oldest and largest Islamic political group was founded by the Egyptian schoolteacher Hassan al-Banna in 1928. The Brotherhood's stated goal is to instill the Qur'an and Sunnah as the "sole reference point for ... ordering the life of the Muslim family, individual, community ... and state".
Minor scale: A minor scale in music theory is a scale with a scale degree at an interval of a minor third and another interval of a perfect fifth above the tonic. While this definition encompasses modes with the minor third, such as Dorian mode and the Phrygian mode, the term usually refers to the natural minor, harmonic minor, and melodic minor scales, described below, which are in most common use in western classical music. The natural minor scale is the same as the 6th mode of the major scale.
Michael Crichton: John Michael Crichton (October 23, 1942 - November 4, 2008) was an American author, producer, director, screenwriter, and medical school graduate, best known for his work in the science fiction, medical fiction, and thriller genres. His books have sold over 150 million copies worldwide, and many have been adapted into films. In 1994, Crichton became the only creative artist ever to have works simultaneously charting at #1 in television, film, and book sales.
Mergers and acquisitions: The phrase mergers and acquisitions (abbreviated M&A) refers to the aspect of corporate strategy, corporate finance and management dealing with the buying, selling and combining of different companies that can aid, finance, or help a growing company in a given industry grow rapidly without having to create another business entity.
Montenegro: Montenegro, (meaning "Black Mountain" in Montenegrin) is a country located in Southeastern Europe. It has a coast on the Adriatic Sea to the south-west and is bordered by Croatia to the west, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the northwest, Serbia to the northeast, Kosovo to the east and Albania to the southeast. Its capital and largest city is Podgorica, while Cetinje is designated as the Prijestonica (), meaning the former Royal Capital City.
United States v. Microsoft: United States v. Microsoft was a set of consolidated civil actions filed against Microsoft Corporation pursuant to the Sherman Antitrust Act on May 18, 1998 by the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and 20 U.S. states. Joel I. Klein was the lead prosecutor. The plaintiffs alleged that Microsoft abused monopoly power on Intel-based personal computers in its handling of operating system sales and web browser sales.
Mercator projection: The Mercator projection is a cylindrical map projection presented by the Flemish geographer and cartographer Gerardus Mercator, in 1569. It became the standard map projection for nautical purposes because of its ability to represent lines of constant course, known as rhumb lines or loxodromes, as straight segments.
Menachem Begin: Menachem Begin was an Israeli politician and the sixth Prime Minister of the State of Israel. Before independence, he was the leader of the Zionist militant Irgun, the Revisionist breakaway from the larger Jewish paramilitary organization Haganah. He proclaimed a revolt, on February 1, 1944, against the British mandatory government, which was opposed by the Jewish Agency.
Moneta Nova: During the Late Middle Ages and throughout the Early Modern period of European history, the inscription Moneta Nova, or 'New Money' appeared on many coins issued on the European continent.
Midas: Midas or King Midas is popularly remembered in Greek mythology for his ability to turn everything he touched into gold: the Midas touch. He bears some relation to the historical Mita, king of the Mushki in Western Anatolia in the later 8th century BC. Midas was king of Pessinus, a city of Phrygia, who as a child was adopted by the king Gordias and Cybele, the goddess whose consort he was, and who (by some accounts) was the goddess-mother of Midas himself.
Misandry: Misandry is hatred (or contempt) of men or boys. Misandry comes from Greek misos (, "hatred") and anr, andros (, gen. ; "man"). It is parallel to misogynythe hatred of women or girls. Misandry is also comparable with (but not the same as) misanthropy which is the hatred of humanity in general. The prefix miso-, meaning 'Hatred' or 'To hate' applies in many other words, such as misocapny,, misarchy and misoxeny.
Monoid ring: In abstract algebra, a monoid ring is a new ring constructed from some other ring and a monoid.
Magic lantern: The magic lantern or Lanterna Magica was an early prototype of the modern slide projector. 1558: Giovanni Battista della Porta describes projection with a lantern in his four volume, Latin publication entitled Magiae naturalis, Naples 1558. The etymology of the sobriquet lanterna magica may harken back to this title. Joseph Needham reports the device may have been first described in China.
Mary Magdalene: Mary Magdalene or Mary of Magdala (original Greek ) is described, both in the canonical New Testament and in the New Testament apocrypha, as one of the most important women in the movement of Jesus. According to Luke 8:2 and Mark 16:9, Jesus cleansed her of seven demons. Mary was a devoted follower of Jesus, entering into the close circle of those taught by Jesus during his Galilean ministry.
Mulholland Drive film: Mulholland Drive is a 2001 neo-noir psychological thriller written and directed by David Lynch, and starring Naomi Watts, Laura Elena Harring and Justin Theroux. The surrealist film was highly acclaimed by many critics and earned Lynch the Prix de la mise en sce (Best Director Award) at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival as well as an Oscar nomination for Best Director.
Mary mother of John Mark: Mary, mother of John Mark is a character in the Bible. She is apparently mentioned only once in Acts 12:12, when Peter is coming to her house: When this had dawned on him, he went to the house of Mary the mother of John, also called Mark, where many people had gathered and were praying. The John being mentioned as her son may or may not have been the same as Apostle Mark.
Mary of Bethany: Mary of Bethany (Judeo-Aramaic , Marym, rendered , Maria, in the Koine Greek of the New Testament; form of Hebrew , Mirym, or Miriam, "wished for child", "bitter" or "rebellious") is a biblical figure described in the Gospels of John and Luke in the Christian New Testament. Together with her siblings Lazarus and Martha, she is described as living in the village of Bethany near Jerusalem.
MusicBrainz: MusicBrainz is a project that aims to create an open content music database. Similar to the freedb project, it was founded in response to the restrictions placed on the CDDB. However, MusicBrainz has expanded its goals to reach beyond a compact disc metadata storehouse to become a kind of structured "Wikipedia for music".
Malcolm X: Malcolm X (born Malcolm Little; May 19, 1925 - February 21, 1965), also known as El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz, was an African-American Muslim minister, public speaker, and human rights activist. To his admirers, he was a courageous advocate for the rights of African Americans, a man who indicted white America in the harshest terms for its crimes against black Americans. His detractors accused him of preaching racism, black supremacy, antisemitism, and violence.
Mennonite: The Mennonites are a group of Christian Anabaptist denominations named after the Frisian Menno Simons (1496-1561), who, through his writings, articulated and thereby formalized the teachings of earlier Swiss founders. The teachings of the Mennonites were founded on their belief in both the mission and ministry of Jesus Christ, which they held to with great conviction despite persecution by the various Roman Catholic and Protestant states.
MMIX: MMIX (pronounced em-mix) is a 64-bit RISC instruction set architecture (ISA) designed by Donald Knuth, with significant contributions by John L. Hennessy (who contributed to the design of the MIPS ISA) and Richard L. Sites (who was an architect of the Alpha ISA). In Knuths own words: Its purpose for education is quite similar to John L. Hennessy's and David A. Patterson's DLX architecture, from Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach.
Maastricht Treaty: The Maastricht Treaty (formally, the Treaty on European Union, TEU) was signed on 7 February 1992 in Maastricht, the Netherlands after final negotiations on 9 December 1991 between the members of the European Community and entered into force on 1 November 1993 during the Delors Commission. It created the European Union and led to the creation of the euro. The Maastricht Treaty has been amended to a degree by later treaties.
Motet: In Classical music, motet is a word that is applied to a number of highly varied choral musical compositions. The name comes either from the Latin movere, ("to move") or a Latinized version of Old French mot, "word" or "verbal utterance. " The Medieval Latin for "motet" is "motectum", and the Italian mottetto was also used. If from the Latin, the name describes the movement of the different voices against one another.
Madrigal: Madrigal usually refers to madrigal (music), a European musical form of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, or to a madrigal dinner incorporating comedy, madrigals, and a feast. Madrigal may also refer to:
Magdeburg: Magdeburg, the capital city of the Bundesland of Saxony-Anhalt, Germany, is situated at the Elbe River and was one of the most important medieval cities of Europe. Emperor Otto I, the first Holy Roman Emperor, lived during most of his reign in the town and was buried in the cathedral after his death. Magdeburg's version of German town law, known as Magdeburg rights, spread throughout Central and Eastern Europe.
Merchant: A merchant is a businessman who trades in commodities that he did not produce himself, in order to earn a profit. Merchants can be one of two types: A wholesale merchant operates in the chain between producer and retail merchant. Some wholesale merchants only organize the movement of goods rather than move the goods themselves. A retail merchant or retailer, sells commodities to consumers (including businesses). A shop owner is a retail merchant.
Mentat: A Mentat is a profession or discipline in Frank Herbert's fictional Dune universe. Mentats are humans trained to mimic computers: human minds developed to staggering heights of cognitive and analytical ability.
Merlin: Merlin is a legendary figure best known as the wizard featured in the Arthurian legend. The standard depiction of the character first appears in Geoffrey of Monmouth's Historia Regum Britanniae, written c. 1136, and is based on an amalgamation of previous historical and legendary figures.
Musical tuning: In music, there are two common meanings for tuning: Tuning practice, the act of tuning an instrument or voice. Tuning systems, the various systems of pitches used to tune an instrument, and their theoretical basis.
Musical keyboard: A musical keyboard is the set of adjacent depressible levers or keys on a musical instrument, particularly the piano. Keyboards typically contain keys for playing the twelve notes of the Western musical scale, with a combination of larger, longer keys and smaller, shorter keys that repeats at the interval of an octave.
Mayerling: Mayerling is a small village in Lower Austria belonging to the municipality of Alland in the district of Baden. It is situated on the Schwechat River, in the Wienerwald (Vienna woods), 15 miles (24 km) southwest of Vienna. From 1550, it was in the possession of the abbey of Heiligenkreuz.
Musical: Musical is the adjective form of music. It may also refer to: MusicAL: Albanian Television channel which broadcasts Albanian folk music Musical artist Musical composer Musical composition Musical ensemble Musical film: musicals on film produced for the cinema Musical instrument Musical Instrument Digital Interface Musical keyboard Musical theatre: musicals produced on the stage
Michael Milken: Michael Robert Milken (born July 4, 1946) is an American financier and philanthropist noted for his role in the development of the market for high-yield bonds during the 1970s and 1980s, for his 1990 guilty plea to multiple felony charges that he violated US securities laws, and for his funding of medical research. Milken was indicted on 98 counts of racketeering and securities fraud in 1989 as the result of an insider trading investigation.
Majority function: In Boolean logic, the majority function (also called the median operator) is a function from n inputs to one output. The value of the operation is false when n/2 or more arguments are false, and true otherwise. Alternatively, representing true values as 1 and false values as 0, we may use the formula The "&minus;1/2" in the formula serves to break ties in favor of zeros when n is even; a similar formula can be used for a function that breaks ties in favor of ones.
Modula: The Modula programming language is a descendent of the Pascal programming language. It was developed in Switzerland in the late 1970s by Niklaus Wirth, the same individual who designed Pascal. The main innovation of Modula over Pascal is a module system, used for grouping sets of related declarations into program units; hence the name Modula.
Miller Urey experiment: The Miller-Urey experiment (or Urey-Miller experiment) was an experiment that simulated hypothetical conditions thought at the time to be present on the early Earth, and tested for the occurrence of chemical evolution. Specifically, the experiment tested Alexander Oparin's and J. B. S. Haldane's hypothesis that conditions on the primitive Earth favored chemical reactions that synthesized organic compounds from inorganic precursors.
Monolithic kernel: A monolithic kernel is a kernel architecture where the entire operating system is working in the kernel space and alone as supervisor mode. In difference with other architectures, the monolithic kernel defines alone a high-level virtual interface over computer hardware, with a set of primitives or system calls to implement all operating system services such as process management, concurrency, and memory management itself and one or more device drivers as modules.
Mithraic Mysteries: The Mithraic Mysteries or Mysteries of Mithras (also Mithraism) was a mystery religion which became popular among the military in the Roman Empire, from the 1st to 4th centuries AD. Information on the cult is based mainly on interpretations of the many surviving monuments. The most characteristic of these are depictions Mithras as being born from a rock, and as sacrificing a bull. His worshippers had a complex system of seven grades of initiation, with ritual meals.
Moxie: Moxie is a carbonated beverage that was among the first mass-produced soft drinks in the United States and continues to be regionally popular today.
Minivan: A multi-purpose vehicle (abbreviated MPV), minivan, people-carrier, people-mover or multi-utility vehicle (shortened MUV) is a type of automobile similar in shape to a van that is designed for personal use. Minivans are taller than a sedan, hatchback or a station wagon, and are designed for maximum interior room.
Manifesto: A manifesto is a public declaration of principles and intentions, often political in nature. However, manifestos relating to religious belief are generally referred to as a creed. Manifestos may also be life stance-related.
Mary Tyler Moore: Mary Tyler Moore (born December 29, 1936) is an American actress, primarily known for her roles in television sitcoms. Moore is best known for The Mary Tyler Moore Show (1970-1977), in which she starred as Mary Richards, a 30-something single woman who worked as a local news producer in Minneapolis, and for her earlier role as Dick Van Dyke's wife on The Dick Van Dyke Show (1961-1966).
Mason Remey: Charles Mason Remey (May 15, 1874 - February 4, 1974) was a prominent and controversial American Bah' who was appointed in 1951 a Hand of the Cause, and president of the International Bah' Council. He was the architect for the Bah' Houses of Worship in Uganda and Australia, and Shoghi Effendi approved his design of the unbuilt House of Worship in Haifa, Israel.
Magneto: A magneto is an electrical generator that uses permanent magnets to produce pulses of high voltage alternating current. At one time the magneto was used in the ignition system of most gasoline-powered internal combustion engines to provide power to the spark plugs. The magneto is now confined mainly to engines where there is no available electrical supply, for example in lawnmowers and chainsaws.
Minimalism: Minimalism describes movements in various forms of art and design, especially visual art and music, where the work is stripped down to its most fundamental features. As a specific movement in the arts it is identified with developments in post-World War II Western Art, most strongly with American visual arts in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Prominent artists associated with this movement include Donald Judd, Agnes Martin, Robert Morris, and Frank Stella.
Maximinus I Thrax: Gaius Iulius Verus Maximinus, also known as Maximinus Thrax (i.e. Maximinus the Thracian) and Maximinus I, was Roman Emperor from 235 to 238. Maximinus is described by several ancient sources (none of which, except for Herodian's Roman History, was actually contemporary with Maximinus) as the first barbarian who wore the imperial purple and the first emperor never to set foot in Rome.
Menilite: Menilite is a greyish-brown form of the mineraloid opal. It is also known as liver opal or leberopal (German), due to its color. It is called menilite because it was first described from Milmontant, France, where it occurs in concretions of Tertiary shale.
Music radio: Music radio is a radio format in which music is the main broadcast content. After television replaced old time radio's dramatic content, music formats became dominant in many countries. Radio drama and comedy continue, often on public radio. Music drives radio technology, including wide-band FM and modern digital radio systems such as digital radio mondiale.
Massively multiplayer online role-playing game: Massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) is a genre of computer role-playing games in which a very large number of players interact with one another within a virtual game world. As in all RPGs, players assume the role of a fictional character (often in a fantasy world), and take control over many of that character's actions.
Mystery Science Theater 3000: Mystery Science Theater 3000, often abbreviated MST3K, is an American cult television comedy series created by Joel Hodgson and produced by Best Brains, Inc. , that ran from 1988 to 1999. The series features a man and his robot sidekicks who are trapped on a space station by an evil scientist and forced to watch a selection of bad movies, initially (but not especially limited to) science fiction B-movies.
Malt: Malting is a process applied to cereal grains, in which the grains are made to germinate by soaking in water and are then quickly halted from germinating further by drying/heating with hot air. Thus, malting is a combination of two processes: the sprouting process and the kiln-drying process. These latter terms are often preferred when referring to the field of brewing for batches of beer or other beverages as they provide more specific information.
Multiplication: Multiplication (symbol "") is the mathematical operation of scaling one number by another. It is one of the four basic operations in elementary arithmetic.
Mortar: Mortar has several meanings: Mortar (weapon) fires shells at a much lower velocity and higher ballistic arc than other ordnance. Mortar (masonry), material used in masonry to fill the gaps between blocks and bind them together. Mortar (firestop), hydraulic cementitious material used to firestop through-penetrations in wall and floor assemblies required to have a fire-resistance rating. Mortar and pestle, a vessel and implement used to crush or grind materials.
Masonry: Masonry is the building of structures from individual units laid in and bound together by mortar; the term masonry can also refer to the units themselves. The common materials of masonry construction are brick, stone such as marble, granite, travertine, limestone; concrete block, glass block, and tile. Masonry is generally a highly durable form of construction.
Cavity magnetron: The cavity magnetron is a high-powered vacuum tube that generates microwaves using the interaction of a stream of electrons with a magnetic field. The 'resonant' cavity magnetron variant of the earlier magnetron tube was invented by Randall and Boot in 1940. The high power of pulses from the cavity magnetron made centimetre-band radar practical. Shorter wavelength radars allowed detection of smaller objects.
Mickey Mouse: Mickey Mouse is a cartoon character who has become an icon for The Walt Disney Company. Mickey Mouse was created in 1928 by Walt Disney and Ub Iwerks and voiced by Walt Disney. The Walt Disney Company celebrates his birth as November 18, 1928 upon the release of Steamboat Willie, although Mickey had already appeared six months earlier in Plane Crazy (Steamboat Willie being the first Mickey Mouse Cartoon with sound).
Manorialism: Manorialism or Seigneurialism, an essential ingredient of feudal society, was the organizing principle of rural economy that originated in the villa system of the Late Roman Empire, was widely practiced in medieval western and parts of central Europe, and was slowly replaced by the advent of a money-based market economy and new forms of agrarian contract.
Margaret Mitchell: Margaret Munnerlyn Mitchell (November 8, 1900 - August 16, 1949) was an American author, who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1937 for her novel Gone with the Wind. The novel is one of the most popular books of all time, selling more than 30 million copies. An American film adaptation, released in 1939, became the highest-grossing film in the history of Hollywood, and received a record-breaking ten Academy Awards.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitor: Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are a class of powerful antidepressant drugs prescribed for the treatment of depression. They are particularly effective in treating atypical depression, and have also shown efficacy in smoking cessation. Due to potentially lethal dietary and drug interactions, MAOIs had been reserved as a last line of defense, used only when other classes of antidepressant drugs have failed.
Metamorphosis: Metamorphosis is a biological process by which an animal physically develops after birth or hatching, involving a conspicuous and relatively abrupt change in the animal's body structure through cell growth and differentiation. Some insects, amphibians, mollusks, crustaceans, Cnidarians, echinoderms and tunicates undergo metamorphosis, which is usually (but not always) accompanied by a change of habitat or behavior.
Meher Baba: Meher Baba, (February 25, 1894 - January 31, 1969), born Merwan Sheriar Irani, was an Indian mystic and spiritual master who declared publicly in 1954 that he was the Avatar of the age. He led a normal childhood and showed no particular inclination toward spiritual matters. At the age of 19, however, a brief contact with the Muslim holy woman Hazrat Babajan triggered a seven-year process of spiritual transformation.
Melancholia: Melancholia (from Greek - melancholia "sadness, lit. black bile"), also lugubriousness, from the Latin lugere, to mourn; moroseness, from the Latin morosus, self-willed, fastidious habit; wistfulness, from old English wist: intent, or saturnine,, in contemporary usage, is a mood disorder of non-specific depression, characterized by low levels of enthusiasm and eagerness for activity.
Mother Superior: A mother superior is an abbess or other nun in charge of a Christian religious order or congregation, a convent or house of women under vows. Mother superior may also refer to: Mother Superior (band), a rock band who became of Rollins Band circa 2000 Mother Superior, a short film about meth-moms in Salt Lake City, Ut.
Mimosa: Mimosa is a genus of about 400 species of herbs and shrubs, in the subfamily Mimosoideae of the legume family Fabaceae. The generic name is derived from the Greek word (mimos), meaning "mimic. " There are two species in the genus that are notable. First the Mimosa pudica because of the way it folds its leaves when touched or exposed to heat.
Mycology: Mycology (from the Greek , meaning "fungus") is the branch of biology concerned with the study of fungi, including their genetic and biochemical properties, their taxonomy and their use to humans as a source for tinder, medicinals, food and entheogens, as well as their dangers, such as poisoning or infection. From mycology arose the field of phytopathology, the study of plant diseases, and the two disciplines remain closely related because the vast majority of plant pathogens are fungi.
Mira: Mira, pronounced /ar/, also known as Omicron Ceti (or Ceti / Cet), is a red giant star estimated 200-400 light years away in the constellation Cetus. Mira is a binary star, consisting of the red giant Mira A along with Mira B. Mira A is also an oscillating variable star and was the first non-supernova variable star discovered, with the possible exception of Algol.
MV Virginian T-AK 9205: MV Virginian (T-AK 9205), formerly named the MV Strong Virginian (T-AKR-9205), is a combination container, heavy lift, and roll-on/roll-off ship. Owned and operated by Sealift Incorporated of Oyster Bay, New York, the ship is one of seventeen container - roll-on/roll-off ships in use by the Military Sealift Command, and one of 28 ships assigned to that organization's Sealift Program Office. The ship was previously known as the MV Saint Magnus and the MV Jolly Indaco.
Manhattan cocktail: A Manhattan is a cocktail made with whiskey, sweet vermouth, and bitters. Commonly used whiskeys include rye (the traditional choice), Canadian whisky, bourbon, blended whiskey and Tennessee whiskey. Proportions of whiskey to vermouth vary, from a very sweet 1:1 ratio to a much drier 4:1 ratio, some people even enjoy a 10:1. The cocktail is often stirred with ice and strained into a cocktail glass, where it is garnished with a Maraschino cherry with a stem.
Mohammed Zahir Shah: Mohammed Zahir Shah (15 October 1914 - 23 July 2007) was the last King of Afghanistan, reigning for four decades, from 1933 until he was ousted by a coup in 1973. Following his return from exile he was given the title 'Father of the Nation' in 2002 which he held until his death.
Mojito: Mojito is a traditional Cuban highball. A Mojito is traditionally made of five ingredients: white rum, sugar, lime, sparkling water and mint. The original Cuban recipe uses spearmint or "Yerba buena", a much lighter mint variety very popular in the island. Its combination of sweetness, refreshing citrus and mint flavors are intended to complement the potent kick of the rum, and have made this clear highball a popular summer drink.
Mohammed Nadir Shah: Mohammed Nadir Shah, was king of the Kingdom of Afghanistan from October 15, 1929 until his assassination in 1933. He and his son Mohammed Zahir Shah, who succeeded him, are sometimes referred to as the Musahiban.
Miso: Miso is a traditional Japanese seasoning produced by fermenting rice, barley and/or soybeans, with salt and the fungus kjikin, the most typical miso being made with soy. The result is a thick paste used for sauces and spreads, pickling vegetables or meats, and mixing with dashi soup stock to serve as miso soup called Misoshiru, a Japanese culinary staple. High in protein and rich in vitamins and minerals, miso played an important nutritional role in feudal Japan.
Malcolm III of Scotland: Ml Coluim mac Donnchada, was King of Scots. It has also been argued recently that the real "Malcolm Canmore" was this Malcolm's great-grandson Malcolm IV, who is given this name in the contemporary notice of his death. He was the eldest son of King Duncan I (Donnchad mac Crnn). Malcolm's long reign, lasting 35 years, preceded the beginning of the Scoto-Norman age.
Malcolm I of Scotland: Ml Coluim mac Domnaill (before 900 - 954) was king of Scots, becoming king when his cousin Causantn mac da abdicated to become a monk. He was the son of Domnall mac Causantn. In 945 Edmund of Wessex, having expelled Amlab Cuaran (Olaf Sihtricsson) from Northumbria, devastated Cumbria and blinded two sons of Domnall mac Eain, king of Strathclyde. It is said that he then "let" or "commended" Strathclyde to Ml Coluim in return for an alliance.
MV Buffalo Soldier T-AK-9301: Merchant Vessel Buffalo Soldier (T-AK-9301) is roll-on/roll-off ship, formerly of the French Government Line (now merged into CMA CGM. ) She was sold and reflagged US, renamed to honor Buffalo Soldiers, and charted by the United States Navy Military Sealift Command as a Maritime Prepositioning ship serving at Diego Garcia laden with U.S. Air Force munitions. She is self-sustaining, that is, she can unload herself, an asset in harbors with little or no infrastructure.
Maximum transmission unit: In computer networking, the maximum transmission unit (MTU) of a layer of a communications protocol is the size of the largest protocol data unit that the layer can pass onwards. MTU parameters usually appear in association with a communications interface. Standards can fix the size of an MTU; or systems (such as point-to-point serial links) may decide MTU at connect time.
Maritime Prepositioning ship: The 31 Maritime Prepositioning Ships(MPS) are part of the United States Military Sealift Command's Prepositioning Program. They are strategically positioned around the globe to support the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and Defense Logistics Agency. They are named after Medal of Honor recipients from the service they are intended to support from various wars.
Mathias Rust: Mathias Rust is a German man known for his illegal landing near Red Square in Moscow in 1987. As an amateur aviator, he flew from Finland to Moscow, being tracked several times by Soviet air defence and interceptors. The Soviet fighters never received permission to shoot him down, and several times he was mistaken for a friendly aircraft. He landed on Vasilevski Spusk next to Red Square near the Kremlin in the capital of the USSR.
Malware: Malware, short for malicious software, is software designed to infiltrate a computer system without the owner's informed consent. The expression is a general term used by computer professionals to mean a variety of forms of hostile, intrusive, or annoying software or program code. The term "computer virus" is sometimes used as a catch-all phrase to include all types of malware, including true viruses.
Mount Baker: Mount Baker, or Koma Kulshan, is an active glaciated andesitic stratovolcano in the Cascade Volcanic Arc and the North Cascades of Washington State in the United States. It is the second-most active volcano in the range after Mount Saint Helens. It is about 31 miles (50 km) due east of the city of Bellingham, Whatcom County, making it the northernmost volcano in the Cascade Range but not the northernmost of the Cascade Volcanic Arc, which extends north into the Coast Mountains.
Mot rhead: Mothead are a British rock band formed in 1975 by bassist, singer and songwriter Ian Fraser Kilmister, known mostly by his stage name Lemmy, who has remained the sole constant member. The band was part of the New Wave of British Heavy Metal, which re-energised heavy metal in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Usually a power trio, Mothead had particular success in the early 1980s with several successful singles in the UK Top 40 chart.
Mole Day: Mole Day is an unofficial holiday celebrated among chemists in North America on October 23, between 6:02 AM and 6:02 PM, making the date 6:02 10/23 in the American style of writing dates. The time and date are derived from the Avogadro constant, which is approximately 6.0210, defining the number of particles (atoms or molecules) in a mole, one of the seven base SI units. Mole Day originated in an article in The Science Teacher in the early 1980s.
Muttiah Muralitharan: Muttiah Muralitharan, often referred to as Murali, is a Sri Lankan cricketer who was rated the greatest Test match bowler ever by Wisden Cricketers' Almanack in 2002. Muralitharan is the highest wicket-taker in both Test cricket and in One Day Internationals (ODIs). He took the wicket of Gautam Gambhir on 5 February 2009 in Colombo, to surpass Wasim Akram's ODI record of 502 wickets.
Milton: Milton may refer to:
Millennium Prize Problems: The Millennium Prize Problems are seven problems in mathematics that were stated by the Clay Mathematics Institute in 2000. Currently, six of the problems remain unsolved. A correct solution to any of the problems results in a US$1,000,000 prize (sometimes called a Millennium Prize) being awarded by the institute. Only the Poincar conjecture has been solved, by Grigori Perelman.
Multiverse: The multiverse (or meta-universe, metaverse) is the hypothetical set of multiple possible universes (including our universe) that together comprise everything that physically exists: the entirety of space and time, all forms of matter, energy and momentum, and the physical laws and constants that govern them. The term was coined in 1895 by the American philosopher and psychologist William James. The different universes within the multiverse are sometimes called parallel universes.
List of conflicts in the Middle East: There have been many conflicts in the Middle East since the time of the ancient Near East up until modern times.
Molotov cocktail: The Molotov cocktail, also known as the petrol bomb, gasoline bomb, Molotov bomb, or simply Molotov, is a generic name used for a variety of improvised incendiary weapons. They are frequently used by rioters due to the relative ease of production. The bombs were derisively named after the then Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union, Vyacheslav Molotov, by the Finns during the Winter War.
Michel Tremblay: Michel Tremblay, CQ is a Canadian novelist and playwright. Tremblay grew up in the Plateau Mont-Royal, a French-speaking neighbourhood of Montreal, at the time of his birth a neighbourhood with a working-class character and joual dialect, something that would heavily influence his work. Tremblay's first play, Les Belles-Surs, was written in 1965 and premiered at the Thre du Rideau Vert on August 28, 1968.
Matzo: Matza is a cracker-like flatbread made of white plain flour and water. The dough is pricked in several places and not allowed to rise before or during baking, thereby producing a hard, flat bread. It is similar in preparation to the Southwest Asian lavash and the Indian chapati. Matza is the substitute for bread during the Jewish holiday of Passover, when eating chametzbread and leavened productsis not allowed. Eating matza on the night of the seder is considered a positive mitzvah, i.e.
Supervised learning: Supervised learning is a machine learning technique for deducing a function from training data. The training data consist of pairs of input objects (typically vectors), and desired outputs. The output of the function can be a continuous value, or can predict a class label of the input object. The task of the supervised learner is to predict the value of the function for any valid input object after having seen a number of training examples (i.e. pairs of input and target output).
Macro virus computing: In computing terminology, a macro virus is a virus that is written in a macro language: that is to say, a language built into a software application such as a word processor. Since some applications (notably, but not exclusively, the parts of Microsoft Office) allow macro programs to be embedded in documents, so that the programs may be run automatically when the document is opened, this provides a distinct mechanism by which viruses can be spread.
Martin Helwig: Martin Helwig (5 November 1516 - 26 January 1574) was a German cartographer of and from Silesia. He was born in Neisse and died in Breslau, Holy Roman Empire. The former student of Martin Luther and Philip Melanchthon in Wittenberg in 1561 copper-etched a map, a single-sheet cartouche of Silesia, which he published under the title "Silesiae Typus" and dedicated to Nicolaus Rhedinger, councilmen of Breslau.
Microsoft Access: Microsoft Office Access, previously known as Microsoft Access, is a relational database management system from Microsoft that combines the relational Microsoft Jet Database Engine with a graphical user interface and software development tools. It is a member of the Microsoft Office suite of applications, included in the Professional and higher editions or sold separately. Access stores data in its own format based on the Access Jet Database Engine.
Malthusian catastrophe: A Malthusian catastrophe (also called a Malthusian check, crisis, disaster, or nightmare) was originally foreseen to be a forced return to subsistence-level conditions once population growth had outpaced agricultural production. Later formulations consider economic growth limits as well. The term is also commonly used in discussions of oil depletion. Based on the work of political economist Thomas Malthus (1766-1834), theories of Malthusian catastrophe Iron Law of Wages.
Millennialism: Millennialism (from millennium, Latin for "thousand years"), or chiliasm in Greek, is a belief held by some Christian denominations that there will be a Golden Age or Paradise on Earth in which "Christ will reign" for 1000 years prior to the final judgment and future eternal state (the New Heavens and New Earth). This belief is derived primarily from the book of Revelation 20:1-6. Millennialism as such is a specific form of Millenarianism.
Might and Magic: Might and Magic (MM) is a series of computer role-playing games from New World Computing, which in 1996 became a subsidiary of The 3DO Company. The producer of the series was Jon Van Caneghem. Might and Magic is considered one of the defining examples of early computer role-playing games, along with the Bard's Tale, Ultima and Wizardry series. The original Might and Magic series officially ended with the closure of the 3DO Company.
Adobe Flash: Adobe Flash (formerly Macromedia Flash) is a multimedia platform that is popular for adding animation and interactivity to web pages. Originally acquired by Macromedia, Flash was introduced in 1996, and is currently developed and distributed by Adobe Systems. Flash is commonly used to create animation, advertisements, and various web page Flash components, to integrate video into web pages, and more recently, to develop rich Internet applications.
Mind control: The term mind control (also known as brainwashing, coercive persuasion, thought control, or thought reform) refers to a process in which a group or individual systematically uses unethically manipulative methods to persuade others to conform to the wishes of the manipulator(s), often to the detriment of the person being manipulated".
Metabolic pathway: File:Portal-puzzle. svg Metabolism portal In biochemistry, metabolic pathways are series of chemical reactions occurring within a cell. In each pathway, a principal chemical is modified by chemical reactions. Enzymes catalyze these reactions, and often require dietary minerals, vitamins, and other cofactors in order to function properly. Because of the many chemicals that may be involved, pathways can be quite elaborate. In addition, many pathways can exist within a cell.
Monoamine oxidase: Monoamine oxidases (singular abbreviation MAO) are enzymes that catalyze the oxidation of monoamines. They are found bound to the inner membrane of plasma membrane in most cell types in the body. The enzyme was discovered by Mingte Lee and Sam Bedford et. al. in the Ovary, and received the name of tyramine oxidase. They belong to protein family of flavin-containing amine oxidoreductases.
Molotov Ribbentrop Pact: The Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, colloquially named after the Soviet foreign minister Vyacheslav Molotov and the German foreign minister Joachim von Ribbentrop, was an agreement officially titled the Treaty of Non-Aggression between Germany and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and signed in Moscow in the early hours of 24 August 1939 (but dated 23 August).
Mobile Alabama: Mobile is the third most populous city in the Southern U.S. state of Alabama and is the county seat of Mobile County. It is located on the Mobile River and the central Gulf Coast of the United States. The population within the city limits was 198,915 during the 2000 census. Mobile is the principal municipality of the Mobile Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), a region of 399,843 residents which is composed solely of Mobile County and is the second largest MSA in the state.
Madness: Madness may refer to: Insanity, a severe mental disorder typically stemming from a form of mental illness. Madness (band), an English ska, pop band. Madness (album), 1983 release by 'Madness' in the USA only . Madness (Tony MacAlpine album), a 1993 album by Tony MacAlpine. The Madness (album) by band 'The Madness', created by four original members of 'Madness' (above). "Madness", a 2001 song by The Rasmus. Madness (manga), 2004 series.
Milieu: Milieu is the word for environment in both French and Dutch. Milieu may refer to: Social environment Milieu Therapy, a form of psychiatric therapy for children Mont de Milieu, a Premier cru vineyard in Chablis.
M bius function: The classical Mius function (n) is an important multiplicative function in number theory and combinatorics. The German mathematician August Ferdinand Mius introduced it in 1832. This classical Mius function is a special case of a more general object in combinatorics.
